Key Figures for the Daimler Truck Group
2022 2021 2022/2021
Amounts in millions of euros % change
Unit sales 520,291 455,445 +14
Revenue 50,945 39,764 +281
Revenue of the industrial business2 49,186 38,641 +27
EBIT 3,496 3,357 +4
EBIT of the Industrial Business 3,185 3,184 -
Adjusted EBIT 3,959 2,552 +55
Adjusted EBIT of the Industrial Business 3,767 2,359 +60
Return on sales of the Industrial Business (in%) 6.5 8.2 -
Adjusted return on sales of the Industrial Business (in%) 7.7 6.1 -
Net profit (loss) 2,763 2,383 +16
Earnings per share (in €) 3.24 2.85 +14
Free cash flow of the Industrial Business 1,746 1,556 +12
Adjusted free cash flow of the Industrial Business 1,976 1,308 +51
Net liquidity of the Industrial Business (December 31) 7,530 6,024 +25
Investments in property, plant and equipment 898 762 +18
Research and development expenditure 1,785 1,574 +13
of which capitalized 167 176 -5
Active workforce3 (December 31) 104,729 99,849 +5
1 Adjusted for the effects of currency translation, revenue increased by 21%.
2 The Industrial Business comprises the vehicle segments Trucks North America, Mercedes-Benz, Trucks Asia and Daimler Buses, as well as the reconciliation.
3 This reflects the active workforce excluding vacation employment as a full-time equivalent.
Share price performance of Daimler Truck Holding AG
2022 2021
in euros
Closing price XETRA
High 35.44 33.05
Low 22.04 29.78
Year-end closing price 28.95 32.29
Number of shares (in thousands) 822,952 822,952
Key Figures for the Segments
2022 2021 2022/2021
In millions of euros % change
Trucks North America
Unit sales 186,779 162,156 +15
Revenue 22,039 15,782 +40
EBIT 2,376 1,440 +65
Adjusted EBIT 2,379 1,452 +64
Return on sales (in %) 10.8 9.1 -
Adjusted return on sales (in %) 10.8 9.2 -
Investments in property, plant and equipment 216 214 +1
Research and development expenditure 599 467 +28
of which capitalized 0 0 -
Active workforce (December 31)1 28,227 25,930 +9
Mercedes-Benz
Unit sales 166,369 141,331 +18
Revenue 20,213 16,113 +25
EBIT 1,188 483 +146
Adjusted EBIT 1,629 770 +112
Return on sales (in %) 5.9 3.0 -
Adjusted return on sales (in %) 8.1 4.8 -
Investments in property, plant and equipment 431 353 +22
Research and development expenditure 736 690 +7
of which capitalized 120 120 -
Active workforce (December 31)1 40,884 40,327 +1
Trucks Asia
Unit sales 155,967 143,411 +9
Revenue 6,499 5,969 +9
EBIT 161 417 -61
Adjusted EBIT 171 427 -60
Return on sales (in %) 2.5 7.0 -
Adjusted return on sales (in %) 2.6 7.2 -
Investments in property, plant and equipment 153 128 +19
Research and development expenditure 194 204 -5
of which capitalized 33 41 -19
Active workforce (December 31)1 16,214 15,865 +2
Daimler Buses
Unit sales 24,041 18,736 +28
Revenue 3,689 3,211 +15
EBIT -52 -152 +66
Adjusted EBIT 14 -77 -
Return on sales (in %) -1.4 -4.7 -
Adjusted return on sales (in %) 0.4 -2.4 -
Investments in property, plant and equipment 85 62 +37
Research and development expenditure 148 123 +21
of which capitalized 14 15 -10
Active workforce (December 31)1 15,184 14,861 +2
Financial Services
Revenue 1,759 1,122 +57
EBIT 310 173 +79
Adjusted EBIT 193 193 -
Return on equity (in %) 15.9 11.1 -
Adjusted return on equity (in %) 9.9 12.4 -
New business 9,428 5,767 +63
Contract volume (December 31) 24,200 16,866 +43
Active workforce (December 31)1 1,770 1,245 +42
1 This reflects the active workforce excluding vacation employment as a full-time equivalent.
What drives us
The history of Daimler Truck began more than 125 years ago. Back then, our founders Gottlieb Daimler
and Carl Benz developed the first trucks and buses - and thus contributed to the progress and prosperity
of society.
Today, we are one of the world’s largest commercial vehicle manufacturers. We employ more than
100,000 people at more than 40 locations in North America, Europe, Asia, Latin America and Africa,
as well as at numerous sales and service points in most countries around the world. In our global
network, we develop and produce trucks and buses marketed under the BharatBenz, Freightliner, FUSO,
Mercedes-Benz, Setra, Thomas Built Buses and Western Star brands. With the Financial Services
segment, we can also offer our customers a perfectly tailored total package of vehicles and financial
services.
Our customers provide reliable, safe transportation worldwide. We are proud to say that we work for
everyone who keeps the world moving. This also makes us an important part of society and goes hand in
hand with a great responsibility - to our employees, our customers, and all the people who are affected
by our business activities.
Our greatest responsibility stems from the growing demand for sustainable transportation. We pursue
the goal of advancing the transformation of the automotive industry by developing sustainable transpor-
tation solutions. Together with our partners, we are shaping the technology and service transformation
of our industry - and aim to lead sustainable transportation, in line with the principles of our founders
and in line with our vision.
We keep delivering - for all who keep tomorrow’s world moving.
Our Brands
w
More information at daimlertruck.com/en
Contents
Daimler Truck at a glance 6
Combined Management Report 26
with Non-Financial Statement of the Group
including Sustainability at Daimler Truck
Corporate Governance 155
Consolidated Financial Statements 178
Further Information 279
Diversity, equal opportunities and inclusion Information management system
are important to us.
For this reason, we use gender-neutral language throughout this report.  Reference to an illustration or table in the Annual Report.
In the interests of readability and compliance with legal requirements (e.g. w
Reference to further information on the Internet.
fixed German terms), we use the generic masculine form in some text pas-
sages. E
Cross-reference within the Annual Report.
In these cases, the terms chosen include all gender identities without limita-
tion.
Daimler Truck at a glance
DDaaiimmlleerr TTrruucckk aatt aa ggllaannccee
Letter from the CEO 8
The Board of Management 11
Report of the Supervisory Board
on the 2022 Financial Year 12
The Supervisory Board 20
Objectives and Strategy 23
2022 was a very special year: It was our first year as an independent publicly-listed company. As you
read this Annual Report, you will see that we have made a successful start to this new era as Daimler Truck.
We can be very satisfied with an adjusted operating profit (adjusted EBIT) of four billion euros – to
highlight just one key figure.
This is even more true as our environment has become much more difficult than was foreseeable at
the beginning of 2022. One trigger was Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. This war right in the middle of Europe
is not only a humanitarian catastrophe, but also caused significant economic upheaval, particularly in
energy prices. In addition, bottlenecks in the supply chains also led to price increases. We had to deal
with this situation all year round.
At Daimler Truck, however, we don’t spend a lot of time complaining about challenges - we tackle them
and make the best of them. Just three days after the start of the war, we decided to suspend our
business activities in Russia until further notice. This shows how powerful we are now as an independent
company. We were unable to compensate for the comprehensive price increases through internal
measures, and had to pass them on to our customers in a very constructive dialog. We limited the impact of
the supply constraints by prioritizing supply to regions and products with the highest contribution margin.
All in all, 2022 was a year unlike any I had experienced in my long professional career: Supply was
permanently lower than demand, which meant that we were able to deliver significantly fewer vehicles than
our customers would have wanted. Without this restriction, our net profit would have been even better.
On a positive note, the strong demand has once again shown how much our customers rely on
commercial vehicles ”Made by Daimler Truck”.
However, last year we not only managed our environment, but also continued working towards our
two major goals: Leveraging our earnings potential and thereby creating value for our shareholders and
securing a solid financial base for our transformation, and delivering sustainable transport and thus
fighting climate change.
We have made important progress in both of these issues in 2022 and I would like to thank our entire
global Daimler Truck Team for their great work!
In terms of profitability, we achieved or even exceeded all the key targets we set ourselves at the
beginning of the year. When it comes to sustainable transportation, we can say with confidence:
We deliver. By the end of 2022, we already had a total of eight zero-emission truck and bus models in
series production in the Americas, Europe and Asia. In the coming years, we intend to not only add
more battery-electric vehicles but also vehicles with hydrogen-based fuel cells. We are pursuing a dual
strategy here because we are convinced that our industry needs both technologies.
The crucial aspect, however, is that zero-emission trucks and buses can only make a significant
contribution to climate change mitigation if they are successful on the mass market. This is by no means
a given. After all, in addition to the right vehicles, this also requires a charging and refueling infra-
structure as well as cost parity. Our customers must be able to work as economically with zero-emission
vehicles as they do with conventional vehicles, otherwise they will not buy them in large numbers. Yet
cost parity will not happen quickly on its own. It must be brought about by regulators, with CO -based
2
tolls for instance. Building a comprehensive infrastructure, from the generation of green energy to
distribution, is probably the greatest challenge. Here, Europe in particular needs to speed up significantly.
So for zero-emission transportation to become a reality, everyone is called upon: Manufacturers, energy
companies and policymakers. As Daimler Truck, we are committed to leading the way. With full conviction.
Day after day. We see ourselves as a pioneer and the voice of our industry – and that makes us proud.
Leinfelden-Echterdingen, March 2023
Sincerely yours,
Martin Daum
Chairman of the Board of Management of Daimler Truck Holding AG
The Board of Management
Jochen Goetz Martin Daum Jürgen Hartwig Andreas Gorbach
Member of the Chairman of the Member of the Member of the
Board of Management, Board of Management Board of Management, Board of Management,
Finance and Controlling Appointed until 2025 Human Resources Truck Technology
Appointed until 2026 Appointed until 2026 Appointed until 2024
Karin Rådström John O’Leary Stephan Unger Karl Deppen
Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the
Board of Management, Board of Management, Board of Management, Board of Management,
Europe and Latin America North America region and Financial Services Asia region and the FUSO and
region and the the Freightliner, Western Star Appointed until 2024 BharatBenz brands
Mercedes-Benz Truck brand and Thomas Built Buses Appointed until 2024
Appointed until 2029 brands
Appointed until 2024
The members of the Board of Management of Daimler Truck Holding AG (from left to right).
Report of the Supervisory Board
on the 2022 Financial Year
Dear Shareholders,
2022 was the first full financial year for our Company following Responsibilities and working methods of
the formation of the independent Daimler Truck Group and the Supervisory Board
the successful listing of December 2021. As one of the world’s The Supervisory Board of Daimler Truck Holding AG fully per-
leading commercial vehicle manufacturers and a globally formed the duties entrusted to it in the 2022 financial year.
active enterprise, Daimler Truck assumed a key position in the The responsibilities of the Supervisory Board are defined in
transportation industry’s transformation to zero emissions and particular by the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz
in 2022 had some significant successes here. However, as part or “AktG”), the Articles of Incorporation of Daimler Truck Hold-
of our operational business, we also saw supply chain restric- ing AG, and the Rules of Procedure for the Supervisory Board
tions and increased energy costs as challenges, both of which and its committees. As part of its activities, the Supervisory
are also effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and the war that Board is naturally very concerned to take the recommendations
has been raging in Ukraine since February 2022. and suggestions in the currently valid version of the German
Corporate Governance Code (“DCGK”) into account as far as
In 2022, our Company achieved significant milestones in spite possible.
of the challenging global situation. This included, in particular,
the public listing of Daimler Truck Holding AG on the German As part of its responsibilities, the Supervisory Board continu-
Stock Index (“DAX40”). Another milestone was undoubtedly ously advised and supervised the Board of Management in
the large number of new products unveiled this year. They are their management of the Company and provided support on
intended to ensure that Daimler Truck plays a leading role, in important topics relating to the strategic orientation and future
particular in the area of sustainability. development of the Company and the Daimler Truck Group.
Daimler Truck remains committed to fulfilling its social respon- In the 2022 financial year, the Supervisory Board also reviewed
sibility as a major company in the transportation sector. many business transactions requiring approval and granted its
Sustainability has played a particularly important part, as in approval after comprehensive consultation. In many cases,
the prior year. The Supervisory Board will also continue to these business transactions arose from Daimler Truck’s strate-
be thoroughly involved here. gic orientation and included product projects, sustainability
issues, financial and investment projects and plans as well as
The 2022 financial year has shown that Daimler Truck made other significant processes. The Supervisory Board was also
the right decisions for the further development and positioning provided with comprehensive and in-depth information by the
of our Company, even under challenging circumstances. This Board of Management about further business transactions and
was made possible by the great work done by all employees, other measures taken by corporate management, which it
managers and the Board of Management and gave us reason carefully examined and discussed with the Board of Manage-
to continue to look to the future with confidence. ment. This also included circumstances in the 2022 financial
year resulting from significant geopolitical and economic
Tn the following, we report to you on the work of the Supe- changes.
rvisory Board and its committees in the 2022 financial year.
Acting according to its statutory duties, the Supervisory Board
also examined whether the annual- and consolidated financial
statements, the combined management report with integrated
non-financial statement for the Daimler Truck Group and
the other financial and sustainabiltity reports besides the non-
financial statement were prepared in accordance with the
applicable requirements and were in compliance with them.
Joe Kaeser, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Truck Holding AG.
In the course of the 2022 financial year, the Supervisory Board Topics in the 2022 Financial Year
also received regular reports and information from the Board In the 2022 financial year, the Supervisory Board of Daimler
of Management covering the important economic develop- Truck Holding AG held seven meetings and passed three writ-
ments of the Daimler Truck Group and its segments. In this ten resolutions. The meetings of the Supervisory Board were
respect, the Board of Management kept the Supervisory Board also held as video conferences. The overview given at the end
informed on a continuous basis, in particular, about the of this report contains more information about the meeting
intended business policy and other fundamental issues relating formats and the meeting participation of the members. The
to corporate planning, in particular financial, investment and meetings of the Supervisory Board were characterized by an
personnel planning; the liquidity and profitability of the Com- open and constructive dialog. In addition to the intensive dis-
pany and the Group; the position of the Company and the cussion of the relevant business transactions and measures,
Group, including its segments and their specific revenue the Supervisory Board focused further on the exchange of
trends; as well as the course of business. The Board of Man- information at regular executive sessions held in the absence
agements’ reports also included developments in the procure- of the Board of Management.
ment, sales and capital markets, the financial environment and
shareholder structure. In view of the increasing importance of At its meeting on March 23, 2022, the Supervisory Board dealt
sustainability issues in the transport and logistics sector, the with the remuneration of the Board of Management, the annual
Board of Management informed the Supervisory Board several and consolidated financial statements and the combined man-
times on strategic-, technological- and planning measures as agement report and additional financial reports including the
part of the sustainable development of the business model. non-financial statement of the Group and the Dependency
Report prepared for the period before the demerger. Further
The members of the Supervisory Board made ongoing prepara- topics included, in particular, important strategic matters in
tions for the meetings on the basis of documents that were the area of truck drives and preparations for the Annual General
made available to them by the Company in good time before Meeting on June 22, 2022. The Supervisory Board also focused
these meetings. Preparation for the meetings also included on regulating the consideration of significant sustainability
separate preliminary discussions of shareholders and employ- issues in corporate governance. This was carried out against
ees, in which members of the Board of Management also took the background of the ongoing amendment of the G erman
part. The committees of the Supervisory Board worked inten- Corporate Governance Code at this time.
sively on the preparations for the meetings of the Supervisory
Board within their particular areas of responsibility. Michael Important projects in the field of transport, now focusing on
Brosnan, Chairman of the Audit Committee, and Joe Kaeser as battery-electric and hydrogen-powered vehicles, were also a
the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, together with other key aspect of the May17, 2022 meeting. The Supervisory
members of the Supervisory Board, also held bilateral meet- Board also dealt with the interim report for the first quarter of
ings with members of the Board of Management and manage- 2022 for information purposes, received a corresponding
ment of the Company to exchange views. financial update and once again discussed issues relating to
sustainability in corporate governance.
The constituent meeting of the Supervisory Board which took The Supervisory Board also discussed questions about corpo-
place after the first Annual General Meeting of June 22, 2022 rate governance with the Company’s Chief Legal and Compli-
was dedicated entirely to corporate governance. Alongside the ance Officer. In this context, the Supervisory Board also dealt
election of ten shareholder representatives by the Annual Gen- with the implementation of the key recommendations of the
eral Meeting, all ten employee representatives were appointed GCGC 2022 and, in particular, the independence of share-
by court order, effective by the end of the Annual General holder representatives within the meaning of the GCGC.
Meeting. The constituent meeting therefore mainly dealt with
the staffing of the committees and the election of the Chair- The 2022 Declaration of Compliance with the GCGC was
man and Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board. adopted in December 2022 in accordance with Section161
German Stock Corporation Act (“AktG”). With the justified
At the meeting held on August11, 2022, in addition to the infor- exceptions provided therein, all recommendations of the Code
mational discussion of the interim report for the1st half of are complied with. In the interest of good corporate gover-
2022, the focus was on business transactions in the operating nance, the members of the Supervisory Board of the Company
unit. Questions of sustainability and further planning were also are required to disclose conflicts of interest to the entire
of primary importance here for the further development of the Supervisory Board. Such conflicts of interest may particularly
structural autonomy of the Daimler Truck Group. arise from an advisory or board position with customers, sup-
pliers or creditors of the Company or with other third parties.
As well as dealing with issues of strategy, which will be There were no such conflicts of interest during the reporting
addressed separately in this report, the agenda for the Super- period.
visory Board meeting on September 30, 2022 as part of the
Supervisory Board’s Strategy Days already included planning Against the background of the changes to the 2022 GCGC, the
measures of the Annual General Meeting in the 2023 financial Supervisory Board decided to make specific adjustments to
year. the Rules of Procedure for the Supervisory Board and its com-
mittees. This adjustment takes into account, in particular, the
At its November11, 2022 meeting, the Supervisory Board dealt increased focus of the Supervisory Board’s supervisory and
thoroughly with issues relating to remuneration of the Board advisory role on sustainability in corporate governance as
of Management, corporate governance and corporate planning. defined by the new GCGC 2022. These changes were approved
This report covers these topics separately. The Supervisory at the November11, 2022 Supervisory Board meeting.
Board also discussed the Interim Report for the third quarter of
2022 and reviewed the information provided by the Board of At its meeting of November11, 2022, the Supervisory Board
Management on ongoing projects and the Company’s expecta- also discussed the requirements profiles for the Board of Man-
tions concerning the capital markets. agement and Supervisory Board. The composition of the Board
of Management and Supervisory Board of Daimler Truck Hold-
Corporate governance, Declaration of Compliance ing AG is based on the principles of diversity in aspects such
(with the German Corporate Governance Code), and as educational and professional background, gender, and age.
requirements profile for the Board of Management The Supervisory Board has combined these diversity concepts
and the Supervisory Board with the requirements of German legislation regarding equal
In the 2022 financial year, the Supervisory Board consistently participation of women and men in executive positions and
dealt with issues of corporate governance. At its August11, other requirements relating to the expertise that members of
2022 meeting, the Supervisory Board discussed at length the these bodies need to possess. These combined requirements
content of the new German Corporate Governance Code are presented in the overall requirements profiles for the com-
(“GCGC 2022”), which came into effect at the end of position of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board.
June 2022, and the significance of it for its work, after it had In light of the new recommendations of the 2022 Corporate
already examined the GCGC 2022 in depth at its March 23, Governance Code on sustainability and financial expertise, the
2022 meeting, which at that time was still under consultation. Supervisory Board decided, on the recommendation of the
At its constituent meeting on June 22, 2022, the Supervisory Presidential and Remuneration Committee, to include appro-
Board established a Mediation Committee within the meaning priate changes in the overall requirements profiles of the
of the German Co-determination Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz Board of Management and Supervisory Board. The most signif-
or “MitbestG”) and amended its Rules of Procedure accord- icant change for both requirements profiles concerns the
ingly. requirement for expertise in sustainability issues relevant to
Daimler Truck for the composition of both bodies. After prepa-
At its meeting on November11, 2022, the Supervisory Board ration by the Presidential and Remuneration Committee, the
once again dealt in detail with corporate governance issues Supervisory Board identified these sustainability issues and
and with a first draft of the 2022 Declaration of Compliance. assessed the sustainability expertise of the Board of Manage-
ment and Supervisory Board. In view of the Audit Committee
having financial expertise as recommended by the 2022 GCGC,
the Supervisory Board also made an addition to the overall
requirements profile and spent time fulfilling this requirement.
Based on the requirements profile for the Supervisory Board, well as in February 2023, after preparation by the Presidential
the Supervisory Board also created a qualification matrix and Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee, the
reflecting the implementation status of the requirements pro- Supervisory Board once again dealt in depth with the remuner-
file and discussed its structure and intended publication in the ation system for the members of the Board of Management
Declaration on Corporate Governance. and decided on amendments to this system. The modified
Board of Management remuneration system will be submitted
As well as establishing the relevant requirements profiles by to the Annual General Meeting in 2023 in accordance with Sec-
means of resolution, at its meeting of November11, 2022, the tion120a Subsection1 of the German Stock Corporation Act
Supervisory Board determined that the requirement profiles (“AktG”) for approval. The adjustments are subject to the
for the current composition of the respective bodies of the approval of the Board of Management remuneration system by
Company, which were established on the very same day, were the Annual General Meeting.
fulfilled for both the Board of Management and the Super
visory Board. Following changes to the composition of the Supervisory Board Strategy Days
Supervisory Board during the course of the election of From September 26 to 30, 2022, the Supervisory Board held
employee representatives on November 22, 2022, the Super the first Strategy Days of Daimler Truck Holding AG, following
visory Board reassessed fulfillment on December 8, 2022 the foundation of the Daimler Truck Group, at the headquar-
and approved the publication of the qualification matrix for ters of Daimler Truck North America LLC in Portland, USA. As
the Supervisory Board in the Declaration on Corporate part of this multi-day event, the Supervisory Board dealt exten-
Governance. sively with the strategic orientation of the Daimler Truck Group,
including the business strategy. Together with the responsible
According to Section 96 Subsection 2 of the German Stock representatives of the management of the Daimler Truck
Corporation Act (“AktG”), at least 30% of the members of the Group and in particular the members of the Board of Manage-
supervisory boards of listed companies subject to equal co- ment, the Supervisory Board discussed the plans for the fur-
determination must be women and 30% men. This quota is to ther strategic direction and sustainability issues important to
be met by the Supervisory Board as a whole. If the shareholder the Group in detail. Another special focus was on the technol-
representatives or employee representatives object to the ogy transformation, in the context of which the Supervisory
overall fulfillment to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board Board dealt in depth with the strategic planning in battery-
prior to the election, the minimum proportion for this election electric and hydrogen-powered transport. In addition to
must be met separately by the shareholder representatives detailed discussions on strategic issues, the Supervisory
and the employee representatives. Since there was no objec- Board also used the time in Portland to hold a meeting on Sep-
tion to the overall fulfillment, the gender quota must be met in tember 30, 2022.
full by the Supervisory Board. Without prejudice to overall ful-
fillment, however, the shareholder and employee sides also Discussion and resolution on corporate planning
met the minimum share for their respective side in financial (Daimler Truck Business Planning)
year 2022 as a whole. In the period up to the implementation At its November11, 2022 meeting, the Supervisory Board dis-
of Section 96 Subsection 2 of the German Stock Corporation cussed and passed a resolution on Daimler Truck Business
Act (“AktG”), the Supervisory Board already decided on Planning for the coming financial years. The Supervisory Board
December10, 2021, to set a target of at least 30% women and had access to comprehensive documents for this purpose,
30% men, which was met. The Supervisory Board’s nomina- which also highlighted the risks and opportunities including
tions to the 2022 Annual General Meeting also took into from sustainability-related objectives in the corporate planning
account the statutory provisions on gender quotas. in particular. In addition, the Supervisory Board turned its
attention to the liquidity risk management framework devel-
On December 31, 2022, the Supervisory Board of Daimler oped by the Company.
Truck Holding AG comprised 6 women (of which 3 were share-
holder or employee representatives) and 14 men (of which 7 Composition of the Supervisory Board and its committees
were shareholder or employee representatives). The Supervisory Board of Daimler Truck Holding AG consists of
twenty Supervisory Board members. From the end of the first
Remuneration of the Board of Management Annual General Meeting of Daimler Truck Holding AG on
The remuneration system applicable to the members of the June 22, 2022, it was to be staffed by ten employee represen-
Board of Management in the 2022 financial year was deter- tatives and ten shareholder representatives, in accordance
mined by the Supervisory Board at its constituent meeting of with the German Co-determination Act (“MitbestG”), following
December10, 2021. On the basis of this, the Supervisory the conclusion of status proceedings initiated by the Board of
Board set the targets for the 2022 financial year at its Management. The term of office of twenty Supervisory Board
March 23, 2022 meeting on the recommendation of the Presi- members elected by the Annual General Meeting on Decem-
dential and Remuneration Committee. The Supervisory Board ber 2, 2021 before the Daimler Truck spin-off became effective
also determined the target achievement for the 2021 financial ended upon the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on
year. The 2022 remuneration system was presented to the June 22, 2022. Due to the court appointment of employee rep-
Annual General Meeting of Daimler Truck Holding AG on resentatives and the election of shareholder representatives
June 22, 2022 for approval pursuant to Section120a Subsec- by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, the Supervi-
tion1 of the German Stock Corporation Act (“AktG”). Approval sory Board had an equal composition as of the end of the
was given at the Annual General Meeting with a large majority Annual General Meeting. The election procedure for employee
of 96.20% being in favor. In November and December 2022 as representatives on the Supervisory Board was concluded on
November 22, 2022. Employees elected ten employee repre- Nomination Committee
sentatives to the Supervisory Board. Existing court-appointed On June 22, 2022, the Supervisory Board elected Marie Wieck
positions of employee representatives expired upon this and Renata Jungo Brüngger as additional members of the
election. New members of the Supervisory Board who joined Nomination Committee to join Joe Kaeser, who, as Chairman of
following their election were given specific support by the the Supervisory Board, is also Chairman of the Nomination
Company in their new tasks in a structured onboarding process. Committee in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
By means of the resolution of December 10, 2021, the Super- Mediation Committee
visory Board of Daimler Truck Holding AG had already set up The Supervisory Board established a Mediation Committee for
and staffed a Presidential, Audit and Nomination Committee. the first time on June 22, 2022 and elected Marie Wieck and
At its constituent meeting of June 22, 2022, the Supervisory Roman Zitzelsberger as new members to the Mediation Com-
Board also set up a Mediation Committee in accordance with mittee. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Chairman
the relevant provisions of the German Co-determination Act of the Supervisory Board Joe Kaeser also occupies the position
(“MitbestG”). At its meeting on November11, 2022, the Super- of Chairman of the Mediation Committee, and Michael Brecht
visory Board passed a resolution to rename the Presidential is its Deputy Chairman, also in accordance with the Rules of
Committee the Presidential and Remuneration Committee. Procedure. After re-election as an employee representative on
Following the election of the employee representatives, the November 22, 2022, Roman Zitzelsberger was re-elected as a
Supervisory Board turned its attention to the election of member of the Mediation Committee.
employee representatives in the committees by means of a
written resolution. The committees had the following members Changes to the Board of Management and the
in the financial year 2022: Supervisory Board
The composition of the Supervisory Board of Daimler Truck
Presidential and Remuneration Committee Holding AG was subject to several changes in the 2022 finan-
At its June 22, 2022 meeting, the Supervisory Board elected cial year due to the impact of the German Co-determination
Marie Wieck and Roman Zitzelsberger to be members of the Act (“MitbestG”) on the Supervisory Board, in the course of
Presidential and Remuneration Committee. In accordance with the first Annual General Meeting and through the election of
the Rules of Procedure, Joe Kaeser, as Chairman of the Super- employee representatives.
visory Board is also Chairman of the Presidential and Remuner-
ation Committee, and Michael Brecht is Deputy Chairman, also At its meeting on March 9, 2023, the Supervisory Board
in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. After the renewed appointed on the basis of the recommendation of the Presi-
election as employee representative on November 22, 2022, dential and Remuneration Committee Karin Rådström, respon-
Roman Zitzelsberger was again elected as a member of the sible for the Mercedes-Benz Trucks brand and the regions
Presidential and Remuneration Committee. Europe and Latin America, for the duration of five more years
from February1, 2024, i.e. until January 31, 2029, as member
Audit Committee of the Board of Management. There were no further changes to
Michael Brosnan, Akihiro Eto, Harald Wilhelm, Michael Brecht, the Board of Management in the 2022 financial year.
Jörg Köhlinger and Thomas Zwick were elected to the Audit
Committee on June 22, 2022. On June 22, 2022, the Audit The term of office of twenty Supervisory Board members
Committee elected Michael Brosnan as its Chairman and elected by the Annual General Meeting on December 2, 2021
Michael Brecht as its Deputy Chairman. Michael Brecht, Jörg before the Daimler Truck spin-off became effective upon the
Köhlinger and Thomas Zwick were re-elected to the Audit Com- conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on June 22, 2022.
mittee in December 2022, after the election of the employee
representatives. The Audit Committe in turn re-elected
Michael Brecht as its Deputy Chairman.
At the first Annual General Meeting of Daimler Truck Holding Following the election of employee representatives, the Super-
AG on June 22, 2022, the following ten shareholder representa- visory Board re-elected Michael Brecht as Deputy Chairman of
tives were elected to the Supervisory Board by the sharehold- the Supervisory Board.
ers with immediate effect and with a term of office lasting until
the end of the Annual General Meeting in the 2026 financial Work in the committees
year: The Presidential and Remuneration Committee held five
meetings in the 2022 financial year. The committee’s work
– Michael Brosnan, Osterville, Massachusetts, United States; focused in particular on issues relating to corporate gover-
– Jacques Esculier, Saanen, Switzerland; nance and the remuneration of the Board of Management. The
– Akihiro Eto, Tokyo, Japan; Presidential and Remuneration Committee also gave its sup-
– Laura Ipsen, Reston, Virginia, United States; port to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board in his work and
– Renata Jungo Brüngger, Horgen, Switzerland; turned its attention to taking on external and other mandates
– Joe Kaeser, Munich, Germany; by members of the Board of Management, HR matters and
– John Krafcik, Austin, Texas, United States; Directors and Officers’ insurance (“D&O insurance”).
– Martin H. Richenhagen, Duluth, Georgia, United States;
– Marie Wieck, Cold Spring, New York, United States; The Audit Committee held seven meetings in the 2022 finan-
– Harald Wilhelm, Stuttgart, Germany. cial year. Further details can be found in the report of the Audit
Committee.
Upon request, the Stuttgart District Court appointed the fol-
lowing ten employee representatives to the Supervisory Board The Nomination Committee held one meeting in the 2022
effective the end of the Annual General Meeting on June 22, financial year. The subject of this meeting was, in particular,
2022, until the effective conclusion of the election procedure: the preparation of the Supervisory Board’s nominations for the
Annual General Meeting on June 22, 2022 for re-election of
– Michael Brecht, Gernsbach, Germany; the ten shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board.
– Bruno Buschbacher, Frankenthal, Germany; As part of this activity, the Nomination Committee took into
– Harald Dorn, Münchweiler/Rodalb, Germany; account in particular the overall requirements profile and
– Carmen Klitzsch-Müller, Weissach, Germany; diversity concept and competence profile for the Supervisory
– Jörg Köhlinger, Frankfurt, Germany; Board integrated within it. The recommendations on the e lec-
– Jörg Lorz, Warburg, Germany; tion proposals of the Supervisory Board adopted by the
– Claudia Peter, Rastatt, Germany; Nomination Committee aimed to meet the aforementioned
– Andrea Reith, Neu-Ulm, Germany; requirements.
– Roman Zitzelsberger, Stuttgart, Germany;
– Thomas Zwick, Landau, Germany. There was no reason to convene the Mediation Committee in
the 2022 financial year.
At its constituent meeting of June 22, 2022, the Supervisory
Board thereupon elected Joe Kaeser as its Chairman and Audit of the annual and consolidated financial statements
Michael Brecht as its deputy. for the 2022 financial year
The annual financial statements of Daimler Truck Holding AG
The election procedure for employee representatives on the and the combined management report for Daimler Truck Hold-
Supervisory Board was concluded on November 22, 2022. The ing AG and the Group for 2022 were duly audited by KPMG AG
employees elected the following ten employee representatives Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Berlin, and received an
to the Supervisory Board with immediate effect with a term of unqualified audit opinion. This also applies to the 2022 Consol-
office until 2027: idated Financial Statements compiled in accordance with IFRS.
– Michael Brecht, Gernsbach, Germany; At its meeting on March 9, 2023, the Supervisory Board dis-
– Bruno Buschbacher, Frankenthal, Germany; cussed the annual financial statements of the Company, the
- Raymond Curry, Detroit, Michigan, United States; consolidated financial statements, the combined management
– Carmen Klitzsch-Müller, Weissach, Germany; report and the proposal on the appropriation of distributable
– Jörg Köhlinger, Frankfurt am Main, Germany; profits, each of which was issued with an unqualified audit
– Jörg Lorz, Warburg, Germany; opinion by the auditors, the non-financial statement of the
– Andrea Reith, Neu-Ulm, Germany; group integrated in the combined management report, which
- Andrea Seidel, Stuttgart, Germany; was reviewed by the auditors with limited assurance as well as
– Roman Zitzelsberger, Stuttgart, Germany; further unaudited sustainability reporting integrated into the
– Thomas Zwick, Landau, Germany. combined management report.
The following employee representatives resigned from the
Supervisory Board with effect from November 22, 2022:
– Harald Dorn, Münchweiler/Rodalb, Germany;
– Claudia Peter, Rastatt, Germany.
The members of the Supervisory Board had extensive draft 2022 Annual General Meeting and
documents at their disposal for preparation purposes, includ- preparations for the 2023 Annual General Meeting
ing the Annual Report with the consolidated financial state- The first Annual General Meeting of Daimler Truck Holding AG
ments compiled in accordance with IFRS, the combined man- as a listed company took place in Stuttgart on June 22, 2022
agement report, including the non-financial statement of the as a virtual Annual General Meeting within the meaning of
Group, further sustainability reporting, the Declaration on Cor- Section1 of the Act on Measures in the Law on Company,
porate Governance, the annual financial statements of Daimler Cooperative, Association, Foundation and Home Ownership to
Truck Holding AG, the proposal for the appropriation of distrib- Combat the Effects of the COVID-19 Pandemic (“COVMG”).
utable profits of the Board of Management, the Remuneration
Report and the audit reports of KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungs- At its meeting on March 23, 2022, the Supervisory Board
gesellschaft, Berlin, for the annual financial statements of approved the agenda and proposed resolutions for the Annual
Daimler Truck Holding AG, the consolidated financial state- General Meeting. In the run-up to the Annual General Meeting,
ments including the combined management report and the Joe Kaeser, Chairman of the Supervisory Board, held in-depth
reporting on the accounting-related internal control system, as discussions with investors and voting proxies on the role of the
well as the draft report of the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board in corporate governance during the self-
recommendations of the Audit Committee, which also dealt in styled “governance roadshows”.
detail with the aforementioned topics.
At the Annual General Meeting, the resolutions proposed by
The Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board dealt with the Supervisory Board were adopted by a large majority. This
these documents in detail and discussed them intensively in included, in particular, the individual election of shareholder
the presence of the auditors, who reported on the results of representatives explained above and the discharge of mem-
their audit and particularly addressed the key audit matters bers of the Supervisory Board for the 2021 financial year.
and the relevant audit procedures, including the conclusions
drawn, and were available to answer additional questions and In preparation for the 2023 Annual General Meeting, on Sep-
provide information. Following the final review of the audit by tember 30, 2022, the Supervisory Board passed a resolution
the Audit Committee and its own review, the Supervisory on the conditions for staging the Annual General Meeting. At
Board endorsed with the findings of the external audit. It deter- its meeting on March 9, 2023, the Supervisory Board also
mined that there were no objections to be raised and adopted approved the agenda and the proposed resolutions for the
the financial statements compiled by the Board of Manage- 2023 Annual General Meeting.
ment and the combined management report, including the
non-financial statement audited with limited assurance. The Appreciation
2022 financial statements of the Company were thus adopted. The Supervisory Board would like to express its thanks to all
On this basis, the Supervisory Board endorsed the proposal employees of the Daimler Truck Group and the members of the
of the Board of Management concerning the appropriation of management and the Board of Management for their commit-
d istributable profits. ment and hard work in the 2022 financial year and their active
contribution to the Company’s success.
The Supervisory Board also adopted the report of the Super
visory Board, the Declaration on Corporate Governance and Special thanks should also be given to Claudia Peter and
the Remuneration Report, which was prepared together with Harald Dorn who made a particularly outstanding contribution
the Board of Management in accordance with Section162 of to Daimler Truck through their hard work and commitment to
the German Stock Corporation Act (“AktG”). the Supervisory Board and who left the Supervisory Board in
the 2022 financial year.
Leinfelden-Echterdingen, March 2023
The Supervisory Board
Joe Kaeser
Chairman
A.01 A.02
Individualized disclosure of participation in meetings by the members Disclosure of the session mode
of the Supervisory Board of Daimler Truck Holding AG in the 2022
fi nancial year
thereof as video
Attendance Number of thereof as or telephone
Participation (%) Committee meetings face-to-face1 conferences
2022
Supervisory Board 7 3 4
Supervisory Board Presidential and
Joe Kaeser (Chairman) 7/7 100 R emuneration C ommittee 5 3 2
Michael Brecht (Deputy chairman)* 7/7 100 Audit Committee 7 2 5
Michael Brosnan 7/7 100 Nomination Committee 1 0 1
Bruno Buschbacher* 7/7 100 Mediation Committee 0 0 0
Raymond Curry* 1 A face-to-face meeting is a meeting to which members of the Supervisory
(since November 22, 2022) 1/1 100 Board have been invited to participate on site. Attendance by video or
telephone link is also possible during an in-person meeting however.
Jacques Esculier 5/7 71
Akihiro Eto 7/7 100
Laura Ipsen 6/7 86
Renata Juno Brüngger 7/7 100
Carmen Klitzsch-Müller* 6/7 86
Jörg Köhlinger* 7/7 100
John Krafcik 7/7 100
Jörg Lorz* 7/7 100
Andrea Reith* 7/7 100
Martin Richenhagen 7/7 100
Andrea Seidel*
(since November 22, 2022) 1/1 100
Marie Wieck 7/7 100
Harald Wilhelm 7/7 100
Roman Zitzelsberger* 7/7 100
Thomas Zwick* 7/7 100
Harald Dorn*
(until November 22, 2022) 6/6 100
Claudia Peter*
(until November 22, 2022) 6/6 100
*Employee representative
Presidential and Remuneration
C ommittee
Joe Kaeser (Chairman) 5/5 100
Michael Brecht 5/5 100
Marie Wieck 5/5 100
Roman Zitzelsberger 5/5 100
Audit Committee
Michael Brosnan (Chairman) 7/7 100
Michael Brecht 7/7 100
Akihiro Eto 7/7 100
Jörg Köhlinger 7/7 100
Harald Wilhelm 7/7 100
Thomas Zwick 7/7 100
Nomination Committee
Joe Kaeser (Chairman) 1/1 100
Renata Jungo Brüngger 1/1 100
Marie Wieck 1/1 100
Mediation Committee
Joe Kaeser (Chairman) 0/0 /
Michael Brecht 0/0 /
Marie Wieck 0/0 /
Roman Zitzelsberger 0/0 /
The Supervisory Board
Joe Kaeser Michael Brecht* Michael Brosnan Bruno Buschbacher* Raymond Curry*
Jacques Esculier Akihiro Eto Laura Ipsen Renata Jungo Brüngger Carmen Klitzsch-Müller*
Jörg Köhlinger* John Krafcik Jörg Lorz* Andrea Reith* Martin H. Richenhagen
Andrea Seidel* Marie Wieck Harald Wilhelm Roman Zitzelsberger* Thomas Zwick*
* employee representatives.
The Supervisory Board
Joe Kaeser Carmen Klitzsch-Müller
Chairman of the Supervisory Board – Employee representative.
shareholder representative. Chairman of the Works Council of the Daimler Truck AG
Chairman of the Presidential and Remuneration Committee, headquarters at the Stuttgart site.
the Nomination Committee and the Mediation Committee.
Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy AG. Jörg Köhlinger
Employee representative.
Michael Brecht Member of the Audit Committee.
Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board – District Manager Central of IG Metall (Metalworkers’ Union).
employee representative.
Deputy Chairman of the Presidential and Remuneration John Krafcik
Committee, the Audit Committee and the Mediation Committee. Shareholder representative.
Chairman of the Group- and General Works Council of Daimler Former CEO Waymo LLC.
Truck AG. Chairman of the Works Council of the Mercedes-Benz
plant in Gaggenau. Jörg Lorz
Employee representative.
Michael Brosnan Deputy Chairman of the Group Works Council of Daimler Truck
Shareholder representative. AG. Chairman of the Works Council of the Mercedes-Benz plant
Chairman of the Audit Committee. in Kassel.
Former Chief Financial Officer of Fresenius Medical Care AG &
Co. KGaA. Andrea Reith
Employee representative.
Bruno Buschbacher Deputy Chairwoman of the General Works Council of EvoBus
Employee representative. GmbH.
Chairman of the General Works Council of EvoBus GmbH. Chairwoman of the Works Council of the EvoBus GmbH plant
Chairman of the Works Council of the Mercedes-Benz plant in Ulm/Neu-Ulm.
Mannheim.
Martin H. Richenhagen
Raymond Curry (since November 22, 2022) Shareholder representative.
Employee representative. Former President and Chairman of the Board of Management of
President of the United Auto Workers trade union. AGCO Corporation.
Jacques Esculier Andrea Seidel (since November 22, 2022)
Shareholder representative. Employee representative.
Former Chairman of the Board of Management and CEO of Deputy Chairwoman of the Group Spokespersons’ Committee
WABCO Holdings Inc. and the General Spokespersons’ Committee of the executive
employees of Daimler Truck AG. Chairwoman of the
Akihiro Eto Management Representative Committee of the executive
Shareholder representative. employees of Daimler Truck Leinfelden-Echterdingen
Member of the Audit Committee. headquarters.
Former Member of the Board of Management, President and
Global Chief Operating Officer of Bridgestone Corporation. Marie Wieck
Shareholder representative.
Laura Ipsen Member of the Presidential and Remuneration Committee, the
Shareholder representative. Nomination Committee and the Mediation Committee.
President and Chairwoman of the Board of Management of Executive Partner at Ethos Capital.
Ellucian Company L.P.
Harald Wilhelm
Renata Jungo Brüngger Shareholder representative.
Shareholder representative. Member of the Audit Committee. Member of the Board of
Member of the Nomination Committee. Management of Mercedes-Benz Group AG and of Mercedes-
Member of the Board of Management of Benz AG. Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Mercedes-Benz
Mercedes-Benz Group AG and Member of the Board of Mobility AG.
Management of Mercedes-Benz AG.
Roman Zitzelsberger
Employee representative.
Member of the Presidential and Remuneration Committee and
the Mediation Committee.
District Manager Baden-Württemberg of IG-Metall.
Thomas Zwick
Employee representative.
Member of the Audit Committee.
Deputy Chairman of the General Works Council of
Daimler Truck AG.
Chairman of the Works Council of the plant in Wörth.
Harald Dorn (resigned on November 22, 2022)
Employee representative.
Chairman of the Group and General Spokespersons’ Committee
of executive employees of Daimler Truck AG.
Claudia Peter (resigned on November 22, 2022)
Employee representative.
First authorized representative of IG Metall Gaggenau.
All shareholder representatives on the
Supervisory Board are elected until 2026.
All employee representatives on the
Supervisory Board are elected until 2027.
All current members of the Supervisory Board are also
members of the Supervisory Board of Daimler Truck AG.
Detailed information on the members of the Supervisory Board,
their positions on other supervisory boards or comparable
monitoring boards and their curriculum vitae, as well as
information on the committees of the Supervisory Board and
w
their members, can be found on the Company’s Website.
Objectives and Strategy
Trucks and buses are the backbone of our economy and society. The world stands
still without them. At Daimler Truck, we like to say with conviction and pride: “We
work for all who keep the world moving” – for the haulers who transport goods from
ports around the world to supermarkets, construction sites and hospitals. For trans-
port providers who bring people to work, school or on holiday. For the public ser-
vices that keep our streets and cities clean, and for many more. We work for all who
keep the world moving – this is our purpose and motivates us every single day.
A.03
Our Purpose, Our Vision, Our Strategy
A Wd ed
s
tV ria velu fe
or
f so ur
s
tS ao inc
abieO
ilO
it
tU
y
yU TRR
h
S
P
iT
sU
R
R
A
gP
T
rO
E
aGS pYE
h
||
i
W
c
LF
e
A
eo
s
eda
nr
t
d
hd
ia
a
l
Vl nlTl
ca
rw
ea
on
lu
onh
uee
uso
rfref
o
c
oK
ud
rrr
se
m
Ce
tse
ou
mpap
t st
eot
o ti
roh
o
’
srn
me
b
t
b
uaW
ee
sn
r
i
no
sd
epr sLl
r
sd
ee
aM
p
do
a
Pv rrin oeg fid
ta
f
b
Ao
il
dir
t
d
y
WV ea l cu ree
a
f to
e
r
s
uS ph era ior re vh ao lul eders
Lead Technology Transformation Focus on Core Lead Service Transformation
We drive ZEV We focus on core business and leverage globally We drive superior services
Partnerships People & Culture Lean Organization
We join forces We inspire We deliver
OUR VISION | Leading Sustainable Transportation
Our long-term goals In 2022, we refined our corporate strategy with a clear goal:
Daimler Truck is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of We want to “lead transformation and lead profitability.” This
commercial vehicles. Our brands are firmly established in reflects our ambition to lead the transformation of our industry
many regions of the world. With our Financial Services seg- and simultaneously operate profitably and sustain growth.
ment, we offer our customers a complete package of vehicles,
financing and leasing products and other services. Both are key to our future success and to delivering on our
promise to society, our customers and shareholders.
How we achieve our long-term goals: How our segments are implementing the Daimler Truck
Our strategy strategy
In order to achieve our long-term objectives, we focus on three Trucks North America underpinned its claim to play a pio-
strategic levers: neering role in CO -neutral transportation with the start of
2
series production of the battery-electric eCascadia in mid-
1. Lead technology transformation – “We drive ZEV” 2022. The Freightliner eM2 will be added to the growing
CO -neutral product lineup when it goes into series production
2
We want to live up to our commitment to enable CO -neutral by mid-2023. Trucks North America is working with various
2
transport on the roads by 2050. Among other things, we will partners to promote the expansion of charging and refilling
be offering battery-electric and hydrogen-powered trucks infrastructure for battery-electric and hydrogen-powered com-
and buses that are CO -neutral in terms of “tank-to-wheel” mercial vehicles in the United States. At the same time, Trucks
2
emissions. North America is continuing to work with technology partners
in the field of autonomous driving to bring a self-driving
We are also focusing on digitalization in vehicles and the Freightliner Cascadia series production truck (“SAE Level 4”)
backend, as well as automating transportation. onto the road by the end of the decade.
2. Focus on core – “We focus on core business and leverage Mercedes-Benz continues to accelerate the decarbonization
globally” of road transportation. The series models of the eActros and
the eEconic are already being rolled out to customers in
We must prioritize in which areas we will focus our engineer- Europe. The next model will be the heavy-duty long-haul elec-
ing capabilities and investment. A decisive criterion is which tric truck, Mercedes-Benz eActros LongHaul, which will
current or new technologies, products and services meet undergo customer trials in 2023 and is scheduled to be ready
the requirements and wishes of our customers and society for series production in 2024. Additionally, Mercedes-Benz is
in the long-term. We want to combine our activities in order working with various partners to advance the expansion of
to be even stronger in the future. charging and refilling infrastructure for battery-electric and
hydrogen-powered vehicles in Europe.
3. Lead service transformation – “We drive superior services”
Trucks Asia is driving CO -neutral transport forward with its
2
We are promoting the transformation to a service offering FUSO brand and is launching the series version of the fully
that provides a state-of-the-art physical and digital service electric Next Generation eCanter in 2023 – both in Japan and
ecosystem to best support our customers’ businesses. The in other markets such as Europe, Australia and New Zealand.
transformation to emission-free vehicles enables additional In India, Trucks Asia intends to continue the growth of the
growth and business opportunities. BharatBenz brand more than ten years after its successful
market introduction. Ten new vehicles were unveiled for this
We are working on these prerequisites purpose in 2022. Trucks Asia also aims to expand its position
Partnerships help us accelerate change even further. With the in China, the world’s single largest market for heavy-duty com-
right partners, we can reduce our own investment require- mercial vehicles. The production of heavy-duty Mercedes-Benz
ments, gain access to important expertise, achieve economies semi-trailer tractors, which launched in China in 2022 as part
of scale more quickly and offer our customers a comprehen- of the joint venture with Beijing Foton Daimler Automotive
sive service portfolio. “We join forces” (“BFDA”), also contributed to this.
Our employees are fundamental to our progress and success. Daimler Buses is focusing on growth in profitable markets
In order to continue attracting top talent to Daimler Truck in and intends to tap the North American market with a new
future, we will continue to work tirelessly on nurturing an Mercedes-Benz touring coach tailored to local requirements.
attractive working environment, corporate culture and the pro- The strategic course is also set with regard to CO -neutrality:
2
fessional and personal development of our global team. “We Daimler Buses intends to offer battery-electric or hydro-
inspire” gen-powered models in every product segment by 2030. In the
city bus segment, only new vehicles that are CO -neutral in
2
In times of massive transformation in our industry, efficient driving operation are to be sold in the core market of Europe
use of resources is essential. We will continue to focus on a from 2030. Daimler Buses also already offers customers an
lean and agile organization with highly efficient structures and overall e-mobility system for operating an electric fleet. This
processes. “We deliver” includes the construction of the power supply infrastructure,
including the corresponding construction measures, which are
offered as turnkey solution, if required.
Financial Services aims to make a significant contribution to We are also committed to respecting and upholding human
Daimler Truck’s service growth. In its core business of leasing rights throughout our entire value chain. We expect all our sup-
and financing, the segment plans to increase the market share pliers to act in accordance with international social standards
of all trucks and buses sold by Daimler Truck to around 30% in and legal environmental protection requirements. We oblige
the medium term. Financial Services also plans to open up our direct suppliers to implement essential and recognized
new markets and launch new products and service solutions. sustainability standards.
What does sustainability mean to us? The safety of the drivers of our trucks and buses, as well as of
Sustainability is an important part of our long-term objectives all other road users, is our top priority and a central aspect of
and consequently of many strategic projects that we are our vehicle and technology development. Sustainable action is
launching. Sustainability means much more than CO -neutral also reflected in our social commitment to the regions and
2
products. We take responsibility for the environment and soci- communities in which we are rooted.
ety and pursue sustainable corporate governance. We focus on
where we can contribute to a more liveable world. First and We want sustainable success for our Company. This means we
foremost, we start with our production facilities - all our Euro- want to offer the best products for our customers and an
pean plants have a CO -neutral balance sheet since 2022. For attractive investment for our shareholders. For our employees,
2
our production facilities in India, Japan and in the United we create sustainable jobs and an attractive working environ-
States, this step is planned by 2025. By 2039, we aim to have ment. For society, we uphold our responsibilities as a reliable
CO -neutral production at all our plants worldwide. industry partner.
2
We employ more than100,000 people worldwide. They are our Further comprehensive information can be found in chapter
E
most important asset - and we take various measures to Sustainability at Daimler Truck of our combined manage-
ensure that they feel comfortable at work, can develop their ment report with non-financial statement of the group.
potential and maintain their mental and physical wellbeing.
Only by acting sustainably, can we achieve long-term success.
And that’s exactly what we are committed to do: leading sus-
tainable transportation – for all who keep the world moving.
Combined Management Report with
Non-Financial Statement of the Group
including Sustainability at Daimler Truck
Combined Management Report
with Non-Financial Statement of the Group
including Sustainability at Daimler Truck
Corporate Profile 28 Sustainability at Daimler Truck1 61
Business model 28 Governance 63
Important events 2022 31 Environment 77
Performance measurement system 36 Social 107
Declaration on Corporate Governance 38 Further Information 127
Economic Conditions Takeover-Relevant Information
and Business Development 39 and Explanation 131
The world economy 39
The commercial vehicle market 39
Risk and Opportunity Report 135
Business development 40
Investment and research activities 41 Risk and opportunity management system 135
Risks and opportunities 137
Industry and business risks and
Profitability, opportunities 137
Liquidity and Capital Resources, Company-specific risks and
and Financial Position 43 opportunities 142
Financial risks and
Profitability 43
opportunities 145
Liquidity and capital resources 48
Legal and tax risks and
Financial position 55
opportunities 147
Overall assessment of the economic situation 57
Overall assessment of the risk and
opportunity situation 149
Daimler Truck Holding AG
(condensed version in accordance with
Outlook 150
the German Commercial Code (“HGB”)) 58
The world economy 150
Profitability 58
The commercial vehicle market 150
Liquidity and capital resources and
Unit sales 151
financial position 59
Revenue and EBIT 151
Risks and opportunities 60
Free cash flow and liquidity 152
Subsequent liability 60
Dividend 152
Outlook 60
Investment and research activities 152
Outlook key figures 153
Overall statement on future development 154
1 The content of this section was not submitted to an audit in the context of the statutory audit of our Combined
Management Report. Our auditor, KPMG AG, Berlin, has nevertheless conducted an independent assurance engagement
on the Non-Financial Statement of the Group, contained in this section, to obtain limited assurance.
▾▴
This content is part of the Non-Financial Statement of the Group and subject to a
separate audit with limited assurance.
Corporate Profile
Business model
A good125 years ago, Gottlieb Daimler and Carl Benz founded The Daimler Truck Group brings seven vehicle brands under
the modern transport industry with their first trucks and buses. one roof: BharatBenz, Freightliner, FUSO, Mercedes-Benz,
This became today’s Daimler Truck Group (hereinafter also Setra, Thomas Built Buses and Western Star. Its truck product
referred to as “Daimler Truck” or “Group”) – one of the largest range includes light-, medium- and heavy-duty trucks for
commercial vehicle manufacturers in the world, with over 40 long-distance, distribution and construction transport, special
production facilities around the world and more than100,000 vehicles used mainly in the municipal sector, and industrial
employees. The Company has clearly formulated its overarch- engines. The range of bus products includes city buses and
ing objective (“purpose”): The Group works for all who keep inter-city buses, touring coaches and bus chassis. Trucks
the world moving. Daimler Truck customers deliver goods reli- account for the majority of total unit sales.
ably, punctually and safely to their destinations and make peo-
ple mobile. The Company provides the technologies, products In addition to selling new and used commercial vehicles, the
and services its customers need. The same can also be said Group also offers aftersales services and connectivity solu-
for the transformation to CO -neutral commercial vehicles. tions, the latter under the Detroit Connect, FUSO Connect,
2
Daimler Truck wants to make sustainable transport a success, Mercedes-Benz Uptime and Fleetboard brands, for example. In
with great technological expertise and a clear view of customer addition, Daimler Truck Financial Services is a strong brand for
requirements. customized financial and mobility services.
Daimler Truck was spun off from Daimler AG (now Reporting is based on five segments: Trucks North America,
Mercedes-Benz Group AG) in 2021. Daimler Truck Holding AG Mercedes-Benz, Trucks Asia, Daimler Buses and Financial Ser-
is the parent company of the Group with its registered office in vices. Trucks North America, Mercedes-Benz, Trucks Asia and
Stuttgart and its headquarters in Leinfelden-Echterdingen, Daimler Buses together make up the “automotive segments.”
Germany. It was founded in March 2021 to implement the spin- These automotive segments comprise the development, pro-
off from Daimler AG and has been listed on the stock exchange duction, and sale of trucks, buses, engines and related ser-
since December 2021. The Group has major manufacturing vices under the corresponding brands. In addition, other busi-
operations in Brazil, Germany, France, India, Japan, Mexico, ness operations, particularly in the area of autonomous driving
Turkey and the United States, as well as branches in most (“SAE Level 4”), as well as projects managed by headquarters
countries around the world. that are not allocated to the segments and especially elimina-
tions, are combined in the “reconciliation”. Together with the
reconciliation, the automotive segments form the “Industrial
Business.”
This Combined Management Report is for the 2022 financial
year. In this report, we have combined the management
reports for Daimler Truck Holding AG and the Group. We have
expanded the Combined Management Report to contain the
E
chapter Sustainability at Daimler Truck, including the
non-financial statement of the Group.
Activities of the segments Trucks Asia combines the operations of Mitsubishi Fuso Truck
and Bus Corporation (“MFTBC”), based in Japan, and Daimler
Trucks North America is the leading manufacturer of heavy- India Commercial Vehicles (“DICV”), based in India. The seg-
duty trucks in North America by unit sales and number two in ment has a strong position in Japan, Indonesia, India and other
the “vocational market”, the segment for construction vehicles major markets around the world. It develops, produces and
and special vehicles. The segment produces and markets com- sells FUSO and BharatBenz trucks and buses, and also distrib-
mercial vehicles and chassis under the Freightliner, Western utes Mercedes-Benz trucks and buses in numerous Asian mar-
Star, and Thomas Built Buses brands. With its class 5-8 trucks, kets. Mitsubishi Fuso Truck and Bus Corporation also manufac-
it covers the medium- to heavy-duty truck segment. Trucks tures industrial engines.
North America also supplies trucks for off-road applications,
as well as long-haul vehicles and school buses. The segment’s The production network of Trucks Asia includes nine locations
production network comprises15 production locations in the in Japan, India, Indonesia, Europe and China. Trucks Asia is
United States and Mexico. This gives Trucks North America the active in China through Daimler Truck China (“DTC”) and sells
flexibility to adapt its production to market conditions in a imported trucks of the Mercedes-Benz brand. Beijing Foton
cost-efficient manner. Daimler Automotive Co. Ltd (“BFDA”), the joint venture with
Beiqi Foton Motor Co. Ltd (“Foton”), produces trucks under the
Mercedes-Benz is the highest-selling truck brand in the EU30 Auman brand. Since 2022, the joint venture has also been sell-
region (European Union, United Kingdom, Switzerland and Nor- ing locally produced tractors under the Mercedes-Benz brand
way). The segment develops, produces, and sells trucks under for the Chinese market.
the Mercedes-Benz brand in Europe, the Middle East, Africa,
and Latin America, and is also responsible for the sale of FUSO Daimler Buses is a full-service provider of buses and chassis
brand trucks in Europe and Latin America. Its product range with permissible gross weights exceeding eight tons. With its
includes light-, medium- and heavy-duty-trucks as well as spe- Mercedes-Benz and Setra brands, the segment is the top-sell-
cial vehicles. The trucks from Mercedes-Benz are designed for ing manufacturer in its traditional core markets of the EU30,
a wide range of applications, including long-distance haulage, Brazil, Argentina and Mexico. The product range of Daimler
heavy-duty distribution, regional line haul, urban delivery, Buses covers coaches, intercity buses, city buses and bus
municipal services, off-road utility vehicles, and logistics. The chassis. While Mercedes-Benz buses predominantly stand for
segment also produces its own drivetrains at several produc- high-quality technology at cost-effective operating costs, the
tion sites in Germany and Brazil. Through its dealer network, Setra brand is aimed at an upmarket clientele.
Mercedes-Benz also offers its customers services such as
maintenance, repairs, spare parts, digital services, and fleet For aftersales service and spare parts, Daimler Buses operates
management. its own brand, OMNIplus, and for used vehicles its own dealer
network, BusStore. The segment’s production network com-
Furthermore, Mercedes-Benz sells used commercial vehicles prises ten sites in Europe, Latin America and Africa
through its TruckStore sites. The segment’s production net-
work comprises twelve locations in Europe, Latin America and
Africa.
Financial Services is one of the world’s largest captive finan- All segments are committed to the core ambition of Daimler
cial services providers in the commercial vehicle sector. It Truck: From 2039 onwards, the Group aims to offer only new
supports the sales of the Group’s truck and bus brands with vehicles in the regions Europe, North America and Japan that
tailored financial services, which include leasing and financing are CO -neutral in driving operation (tank-to-wheel). To that
2
packages as well as insurance and rental solutions. In addition, end a comprehensive zero-emission product portfolio is being
the provision of fleet management and services solutions as built. By the end of 2022, Daimler Truck already had eight
well as integrated service offerings are planned. Financial Ser- CO -neutral models in series production. In addition, the cell-
2
vices plays a vital role for the Group’s customers, enabling centric GmbH & Co. KG (“cellcentric”) joint venture with the
them to use and maintain their vehicles on flexible and reason- Volvo Group aims to develop, produce and market hydrogen
able terms. The financial services operations have the clear fuel cells and systems. Daimler Truck is helping to kick off a
objective of building and maintaining the loyalty of the Group’s suitable charging infrastructure by launching pilot projects
customer base as well as contributing to the Group’s financial with a number of strategic partnerships. In order to further
s uccess. accelerate the transition to CO neutrality, tailor-made finan-
2
cial services for alternative drive system technologies will also
be offered in the future.
B.01
Group structure of Daimler Truck1
Trucks North America Mercedes-Benz Trucks Asia Daimler Buses Financial Services
Revenue2: €22.0 billion Revenue2: €20.2 billion Revenue2: €6.5 billion Revenue2: €3.7 billion Revenue2: €1.8 billion
Active Active Active Active Active
workforce3: 28,227 workforce3: 40,884 workforce3: 16,214 workforce3: 15,184 workforce3: 1,770
1 Presentation of the main brands per segment.
2 Year 2022.
3 At December 31, 2022. This reflects the active workforce excluding vacation employment as a full-time equivalent.
Important Events 2022
2022 was an exceptional year in many respects: The conditions for the first
year as an independent company were extremely challenging. The war of
aggression on Ukraine, the energy crisis triggered by it, the high inflation in
many regions and the ongoing supply chain constraints. Last year, Daimler
Truck’s global workforce continued to work with great dedication on behalf of
all who keep the world moving. The consistent further development of optimal
transport solutions within the framework of the dual strategy was the top
priority. On the following pages, you can review the first year of Daimler Truck
in its entrepreneurial independence along the most important events.
Important Events
Premiere of the Mercedes-Benz Tourrider in California
The new Mercedes-Benz Tourrider, a touring coach specially
Daimler Truck supports Ukrainian population developed for the North American market, celebrated its pre-
Daimler Truck has reacted with deep dismay to the start of the miere at the Motorcoach Expo of the United Motorcoach Asso-
war against Ukraine. On February 27, 2022, Daimler Truck ciation (“UMA”) in Long Beach, California. Daimler Coaches
decided to stop all business activities in Russia until further North America, part of the Daimler Buses segment, presented
notice. Employees from all over the world expressed their soli- two versions: the upmarket Tourrider Business and a luxury
darity with the Ukrainian population and provided concrete coach for the first-class segment, the Tourrider Premium.
support in the form of trucks and buses for aid deliveries as
well as donations in kind and money for relief operations. This
also included a larger monetary donation, which was collected New Innovation Center opened in India
by the Daimler Truck workforce and doubled by the Company. Daimler Truck opened its product development and IT center
Daimler Truck Innovation Center India (“DTICI”) in Bangalore,
India, in March. Daimler Truck Innovation Center India is a new,
Daimler Truck moves into DAX Company-owned incubator where scalable innovations for the
Daimler Truck Holding AG has moved up to the DAX stock global product portfolio are created. Daimler Truck Innovation
index with effect from March 21, 2022, after the Company had Center India uses India’s comprehensive talent pool in the area
already been listed in the MDAX shortly before. The DAX stock of engineering and IT to develop forward-looking products that
index tracks the performance of the 40 largest German stock are intended to give all Daimler Truck brands worldwide a com-
corporations in terms of market capitalization and with the petitive edge.
highest revenue on the Regulated Market of the Frankfurt
Stock Exchange.
Daimler Truck brand FUSO celebrates 90th anniversary
Daimler Truck’s Asian subsidiary Mitsubishi Fuso Truck & Bus
First series-produced eActros operating for DB Schenker Corporation (MFTBC; “FUSO”), celebrated the 90th anniver-
The first fully electric series-produced Mercedes-Benz sary of the FUSO brand. The origin of the iconic FUSO name
eActros is driving for DB Schenker: Karin Rådström, CEO dates back to May1932, when Mitsubishi’s first bus, the “B46
Mercedes-Benz Trucks, has handed over an eActros 300 for type shared car” rolled off the assembly line at the Kobe ship-
heavy distribution transport to the logistics service provider. yard of the former Mitsubishi Shipbuilding Company and was
DB Schenker uses the eActros to transport palletized ship- branded FUSO. This name was suggested by an engineer at the
ments in the Leipzig area. shipyard. It originally refers to a large sacred tree and is now
used as the name for the hibiscus flower.
After the outbreak of the war against Ukraine, Daimler Truck provided trucks and buses for aid deliveries. The company has also provided
additional support for the population affected by the war with numerous donations in kind and money.
Daimler Truck subsidiary TORC Robotics working with Development milestone: Daimler Truck tests fuel-cell
leading U.S. logistics companies truck with liquid hydrogen
Daimler Truck is one of the leading truck manufacturers in the Daimler Truck reached the next milestone on the road to com-
development of autonomous trucks (“SAE Level 4”). With its pletely CO -neutral transport, also with hydrogen-based drives.
2
independent subsidiary TORC Robotics, Inc., Daimler Truck is Since 2021, a Mercedes-Benz GenH2 Truck fuel-cell prototype
driving the development of autonomous truck transportation in has been undergoing intensive testing - both on the in-house
the United States. TORC Robotics, Inc. has taken the next step test track and on public roads. In the summer of 2022, Daimler
and is working with leading U.S. logistics companies to bring Truck put another prototype into operation to test the use of
autonomous trucks into real-world use. For example, TORC liquid hydrogen. The prototype filling station installed for this
Robotics, Inc. created the “Torc Autonomous Advisory Council” purpose at the development and testing center in Wörth
(“TAAC”) with key logistics industry players to integrate exten- enables refueling with liquid hydrogen.
sive industry expertise into its development process. In addi-
tion, TORC Europe GmbH also opened a technology and soft-
ware development center in Stuttgart in April 2022. Virtual Annual General Meeting: Daimler Truck
reaffirms its claim to leadership on the road to
s ustainable transport
Daimler Truck publishes 2021 Sustainability Report At its first Annual General Meeting, the Board of Management
Holistic understanding of sustainability, CO -neutral products of Daimler Truck Holding AG reaffirmed the mission of Daimler
2
and production by 2039, responsibility for employees and soci- Truck to play a decisive role in shaping the industry’s transfor-
ety, and the creation of clear liabilities with strong corporate mation towards sustainable transport and to create added
governance: Daimler Truck is committed to the decarboniza- value for customers, shareholders and employees. In its first
tion of the commercial vehicle industry and has firmly year of independence, the Company consistently pursued its
anchored sustainability in its business strategy with a focus on clear strategy of fully levering its earnings potential despite
the ESG (environmental, social, and responsible corporate gov- major external uncertainty factors.
ernance) framework.
End of June, 2022 Daimler Truck hosted its first Annual General Meeting as independently listed company.
Daimler Truck, TRATON Group and Volvo Group kick off Daimler Truck introduces all-new Western Star 57X
joint Venture for a European high-performance charging long-haul truck in North America
infrastructure Daimler Truck North America presented the all-new Western
Daimler Truck, TRATON Group and Volvo Group completed the Star 57X long-haul truck in the US. The iconic truck offers a
final step towards forming the previously announced joint ven- striking front-end design and characteristic chrome look and is
ture for the development of charging infrastructure in Europe. the latest family member of the X-Series product family. Like
With Anja van Niersen as CEO, the new joint venture is to make its sister series 47X and 49X, the 57X stands for Western
an important contribution to the Green Deal of the European Star-typical toughness, productivity and efficiency. The all-new
Union and thus to climate-neutral freight transport by 2050. 57X is designed primarily for customers who travel on long-dis-
The plan is to offer at least1,700 high-performance green tance routes, especially in the small-fleets segment or as
energy charge points and to set up and operate them near owner operators.
highways and logistics hubs in Europe.
Daimler Truck subsidiary FUSO unveils the Next
Electric in series production: The Mercedes-Benz eEconic G eneration e-Canter
rolls off the production line at the Wörth plant Daimler Truck subsidiary Mitsubishi Fuso Truck and Bus Corpo-
Daimler Truck is accelerating the electrification of its vehicle ration unveiled the all-new next-generation model of the
fleet: The Mercedes-Benz eEconic for municipal use has gone all-electric light-duty truck FUSO eCanter in Japan. Following
into series production at the Wörth site in the southern Rhine- the world premiere in Japan, the European premiere of the
land-Palatinate. Thus, the second model of the battery-electric Next Generation eCanter took place at the IAA Transportation
Mercedes-Benz trucks will roll off the production line in Wörth, 2022 in Hanover. Production will start in 2023. Mitsubishi Fuso
following the series launch of the eActros for urban distribu- Truck and Bus Corporation will also launch the new vehicle in
tion haulage in October 2022. further markets in the coming years.
Daimler Truck acquires stake in German high-tech Mercedes-Benz buses: Right of way for the transformation
engineering company Manz to electromobility
Daimler Truck has become an important anchor shareholder in Daimler Buses is vigorously pushing ahead with the transfor-
the German high-tech engineering company Manz AG through mation to e-mobility with buses in cities and metropolitan
a capital increase of around ten percent. In addition, in a first areas. The Mercedes-Benz eCitaro celebrated its premiere
step both companies have signed a cooperation agreement on with NMC 3 high-performance batteries at the IAA Transporta-
a strategic partnership to establish a pilot line for the produc- tion 2022 in Hanover. Daimler Buses also announced the
tion of lithium-ion battery cells and for the assembly of batter- launch of the eCitaro Range Extender with fuel cell for 2023.
ies at Daimler Truck’s Mannheim site.
Daimler Buses is vigorously pressing ahead with the transformation to e-mobility with buses in cities and metropolitan areas. The fully
electric Mercedes-Benz eCitaro celebrated its premiere at the IAA Transportation 2022.
Mercedes-Benz Trucks presents the eActros LongHaul Daimler Truck carries out first altitude tests with
for long-distance transport for the first time at the IAA fuel-cell truck
Transportation 2022 in Hanover A Mercedes-Benz GenH2 truck prototype successfully com-
Following the market launch of the eActros for heavy-duty pleted its first high-altitude tests on public roads. During the
distribution transport in 2021, Mercedes-Benz Trucks has also week-long test drives, the Daimler Truck engineers repeatedly
ignited the next stage for battery-electric heavy-duty long-haul crossed the Brenner Pass with the fuel-cell semi-trailer truck
transport and presented the Mercedes-Benz eActros LongHaul carrying a typical load, on the120km highway stretch between
for the first time at the IAA Transportation 2022 in Hanover. Bolzano and Innsbruck. The Mercedes-Benz GenH2 truck is
The eActros LongHaul is scheduled to be ready for series pro- being developed particularly for flexible and demanding appli-
duction in 2024 with a range of around 500 kilometers per bat- cations in the important segment of heavy-duty transport and
tery charge. long-haul applications.
Mercedes-Benz eActros LongHaul receives the “2023 Daimler Truck introduces electric Freightliner eCascadia
Truck Innovation Award” into series production in North America
The Mercedes-Benz eActros LongHaul has won the “2023 After well over one million test miles (over1.6 million kilo-
Truck Innovation Award”. The prestigious industry award is pre- meters) in daily customer operation, Daimler Truck and its U.S.
sented to particularly innovative trucks by the “International brand Freightliner have presented the production version of
Truck of the Year” jury, which is made up of 25 experienced the all-electric eCascadia. The start of production was in 2022.
commercial vehicles journalists from important international
media in Europe and other countries. Decisive for the vote
were the innovative overall technological concept with LFP bat- Expansion of CO₂-neutral energy supply to the production
tery technology, the new e-axle, as well as Mercedes-Benz sites through photovoltaics
Trucks’ high development speed. For the CO₂-neutral transport of goods and the carriage of pas-
sengers, Daimler Truck also wants to make its global produc-
tion CO₂-neutral. Since this year, the European Daimler Truck
Daimler Truck celebrates ten years of business operations locations have been obtaining electricity from solar, wind, and
in India, aims for CO -free 0perations in Chennai by 2025 hydroelectric power. The next step, the expansion of self-
2
Daimler India Commercial Vehicles (“DICV”), a wholly-owned supply from renewable energies thanks to an additional photo-
subsidiary of Daimler Truck, celebrated ten years of business voltaic system is in the construction phase.
operations in India. Daimler India Commercial Vehicles started
in 2012 with the ambition to transform the Indian commercial
vehicle industry with new benchmarks in engineering, safety Daimler Truck reaches important milestone in China with
and comfort with locally produced BharatBenz branded trucks the start of local production of Mercedes-Benz trucks for
and buses. Daimler India Commercial Vehicles is also highly the Chinese market
committed to sustainability. The Daimler Truck subsidiary is Beijing Foton Daimler Automotive Co., Ltd. (“BFDA”), the joint
working on100% CO -neutral production by 2025. venture of Daimler Truck and Foton Motor, celebrated the first
2
locally produced Mercedes-Benz trucks at its new production
site in Huairou, Beijing. With the start of series production,
Daimler Buses starts production of the next generation of Daimler Truck is opening a new chapter in China. Ten years
Setra coaches: New ComfortClass and TopClass roll off after the start of business operations in China, Beijing Foton
the production line Daimler Automotive Co., Ltd. is further expanding its presence
The Daimler Busses plant in Neu-Ulm has begun series produc- and leveraging potential for profitable growth. Trucks manufac-
tion of the new Setra ComfortClass and TopClass 500. The first tured under the Auman brand are still produced and marketed
Setra TopClass and ComfortClass of the next generation rolled in China.
off the assembly line in the second half of 2022. This under-
scores the site’s role as a competence center for coaches in
the Daimler Buses production network and plays a key role in Daimler Truck Financial Services launches in eight
ensuring that the new coaches are put on the road in the high- a dditional countries
est Setra quality. Financial Services launched business in eight additional coun-
tries during 2022 (Argentina, Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy,
Spain, the United Kingdom, Turkey, and Germany). As a result,
the segment was active in15 markets at the end of 2022. With
leasing and financing solutions, the Financial Services national
companies play a key role in promoting electric drives in the
transportation sector. In the future, the national companies
will also broker special insurance packages for truck and bus
customers.
Performance measurement system
On the other hand, effects in connection with the recognition
of rights of use resulting from lessee accounting, which are
Financial performance measures mainly non-cash-effective, are included in the free cash flow of
the Industrial Business. The free cash flow of the Industrial
EBIT Business also includes other reconciliation items not attribut-
EBIT is used as the measure of operating profit for the Group, able to the segments.
the Industrial Business and its segments, as well as for Finan-
cial Services. As earnings before interest and income taxes, For a more transparent presentation of the ongoing business,
EBIT reflects the profit responsibility of the segments. we additionally identify and report an adjusted free cash flow
of the Industrial Business.
The respective EBIT is derived from gross profit, which is the
result of revenue less cost of sales. Operating profit is then Investments in property, plant and equipment
calculated, with consideration of selling expenses, general The Group’s investments in property, plant and equipment are
administrative expenses, research and non-capitalized devel- a key performance indicator for Daimler Truck. They serve to
opment expenditures, and other income and expenses. The further enhance the attractiveness and future viability of our
EBIT of the Industrial Business additionally includes other rec- product range and production processes. In addition to invest-
onciliation items of the Group that cannot be allocated to the ments in plant and equipment, this item also includes invest-
segments. The EBIT for Financial Services already includes ments in land, buildings and operating facilities.
the interest result from operating activities, which is typical for
the banking business. Research and development
The Group’s research and development expenditures are
To provide a more transparent picture of our ongoing business, another key performance indicator for us. This indicator is
we also calculate and report adjusted EBIT for the Group, the used to support decision making on future activities with
Industrial Business and its segments and Financial Services. regard to the technological challenges ahead, and thus to fur-
The adjustments include individual items if they lead to mate- ther strengthen the competitive position of Daimler Truck. In
rial effects in a reporting year. These individual items may in addition to research and non-capitalized development expendi-
particular relate to legal proceedings and related measures, tures, the Group’s capitalized development expenditures are
restructuring measures and M&A transactions. also included.
Return on sales (Industrial Business) Return on equity (Financial Services)
The return on sales is used to assess sales-based profitability For Financial Services, profitability is assessed on the basis of
in the Industrial Business. It is calculated as the ratio of EBIT to return on equity. The return on equity is calculated as EBIT
revenue. Revenues are primarily influenced by unit sales. divided by quarterly average equity. If the return on equity
Based on the adjusted EBIT, we also report the adjusted return exceeds the cost of equity, we create value for shareholders in
on sales for the Industrial Business and its segments. the Financial Services segment. Based on adjusted EBIT, we
also report an adjusted return on equity for Financial Services.
Free cash flow (Industrial Business)
The main indicator of the financial strength of the Daimler New business (Financial Services)
Truck Group is the free cash flow of the Industrial Business. In New business is a key performance indicator for Financial Ser-
addition to cash flows from operating activities, this also vices. The figure indicates the newly concluded contract vol-
includes cash flows from investing activities of the Industrial ume of leasing and financing contracts.
Business. The cash flows from the purchase and sale of mar-
ketable debt securities and similar cash investments included
in cash flows from investing activities are eliminated, as these
securities are classified as cash and cash equivalents and their
change is therefore not part of the free cash flow of the Indus-
trial Business.
Non-financial performance measures Key performance indicators
In addition to financial measures, we use various non-financial Key performance indicators for the Daimler Truck Group within
measures to manage the Company. Of particular importance in the meaning of German Accounting Standard No. 20 for 2022
this respect are the unit sales of the Industrial Business. They include the following performance measures at Group level:
are calculated as the total of vehicle sales in the Industrial revenue, EBIT and adjusted EBIT, investments in property,
Business less intersegment Group transactions. In addition, plant and equipment and research and development expendi-
Daimler Truck pursues non-financial goals in the area of sus- tures (including capitalized development costs). The most
tainability, which are described in more detail in the chapter important for the Industrial Business are both unit sales and
E
Sustainability at Daimler Truck. free cash flow. The adjusted return on equity and new busi-
ness constitute the most important performance measures for
the Financial Services segment.
Definition of sensitivities
For the year 2023, investments in property, plant and equip-
EBIT and adjusted EBIT, research and development expendi- ment as well as research and development expenditures will
tures as well as investments in property, plant and equipment no longer be classified separately as key performance indica-
are considered to be at the prior year’s level if they are within tors, as changes in these measures are already reflected in the
a range of minus 5.0% to +5.0%. If there is a change in a range other performance indicators. Nevertheless, we will continue
between minus 5.0% and minus15.0% or between +5.0% and to provide an outlook at Group level for 2023.
+15.0%, we refer to a slight decrease or a slight increase com-
pared with the prior year. If the change is more than +15.0% or Detailed information on the development of financial and
less than minus15.0% compared with the prior year, we clas- non-financial performance indicators can be found in the
E
sify this as a significant increase or a significant decrease. chapters Economic Conditions and Business Development,
E
Profitability, Liquidity and Capital Resources, Financial
E
The free cash flow of the Industrial Business is considered to Position, Sustainability at Daimler Truck, as well as in the
E
be at the prior year’s level if it is within a range of minus10.0% Outlook in the Combined Management Report.
to +10.0%. If there is a change in a range between minus10.0%
and minus 25.0% or between +10.0% and +25.0%, we refer to
a slight decrease or a slight increase compared with the prior
year. If the change is more than +25.0% or less than minus
25.0% compared with the prior year, we classify this as a
significant increase or a significant decrease.
The overall market as well as unit sales and revenue is
considered to be at the prior year’s level if it is within a range
of minus 2.0% to +2.0%. If there is a change in a range
between minus 2.0% and minus 7.5% or between +2.0% and
+7.5%, we refer to a slight decrease or a slight increase com-
pared with the prior year. If the change is more than +7.5% or
less than minus 7.5% compared with the prior year, we classify
this as a significant increase or a significant decrease.
Declaration on Corporate Governance
The combined Declaration on Corporate Governance for the
Company and the Group pursuant to Sections 289f and 315d
of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch or “HGB”)
E
can be found in the chapter Declaration on Corporate
G overnance in the Annual Report and on the Company’s
w
Website. Pursuant to Section 317 Subsection 2 Sentence 6
of the German Commercial Code (“HGB”), the auditor’s review
of the statements pursuant to Section 289f Subsections 2 and
5 and Section 315d of the German Commercial Code (“HGB”)
is limited to determining whether such statements have
actually been provided.
Economic Conditions and
Business Development
The world economy
While COVID-19 lost prominence in many regions of the world,
the Chinese government followed a strict zero-COVID policy
Two geopolitical factors ensured that the global economy did course until December, 2022. Repeated lockdowns caused a
not perform with the originally anticipated momentum in 2022: significant decline in the speed of economic growth. Although
the almost continuous zero-COVID policy in China with the economy recovered over the course of the reporting year,
regional lockdowns and the Russia-Ukraine war. Fossil fuels the Chinese economy grew at a significantly slower rate of
and raw materials, which Russia and Ukraine are important 3.0% than the self-imposed target of 5.5%.
producers of, had temporarily became significantly scarcer,
particularly in the eurozone. The additional price pressure In this context, exchange rates were volatile. The exchange
resulting from rising energy prices weighed on both companies rate of the US dollar against the euro ranged between 0.96 and
and private households and accelerated the increase in infla- 1.15 during the year. At year-end, the euro was about 6%
tion rates already observed since the middle of 2021. In 2022, weaker than at the end of 2021. The Japanese yen fluctuated
the global inflation was 7.6%. This prompted leading central against the euro within a range of126 to148. By the end of the
banks to adopt a more restrictive monetary policy. Despite this year, the euro had strengthened by nearly 8%. The euro lost
deteriorating backdrop, the global gross domestic product around11% against the Brazilian real.
(“GDP”) rose in real terms by 3.0% year on year, with devel-
oped economies recording a growth of 2.6%. Emerging mar-
The commercial vehicle market
kets increased their economic output by 3.6% in real terms.
The growth prospects of the US economy in 2022 had deterio- Although the global economy performed worse than expected
rated in the course of the reporting year. The rise in consumer in the year under review, some of the important truck unit
prices, also driven by core inflation, forced the US Federal sales markets saw growth. A high backlog of orders and
Reserve (“Fed”) to adopt a much more restrictive monetary pent-up demand led to an upward trend in the commercial
policy. The Fed thus raised the key interest rate to a range of vehicle industry despite the supply chain situation remaining
4.25% to 4.5% by the end of 2022. Although the pandemic- strained. In North America, the market for heavy-duty trucks
related pent-up demand and the robust labor market created a (“Class 8”) grew by around15% to 309 thousand units. As a
favorable environment, high inflation had an increasingly result, we exceeded the scope of our forecast of 255 to 295
dampening effect, so that the US economy grew by 2.1% in real thousand units in the combined management report for 2021.
terms in 2022. Unit sales of heavy trucks in the EU30 region (European Union,
United Kingdom, Switzerland and Norway) were less dynamic,
The countries of the eurozone responded to the Russia-Ukraine but still positive. The market volume increased by around 7% to
war with economic sanctions, to which the Russian side 296 thousand units in the reporting year. This confirms our
responded with their own countermeasures. Russia initially forecast of 260 to 300 thousand units updated in the Interim
reduced gas supply to Germany, for completely cutting off Report for the third quarter of 2022 (combined management
direct deliveries in the course of year. The reduced supply of report 2021: 240 to 280 thousand units). In Brazil, the market
gas caused prices in the eurozone to rise significantly, which level of the prior year was kept for heavy trucks. The markets
was also reflected in the electricity markets. The rise in energy for heavy trucks in Japan and China were negative performers.
prices accelerated the growth of both producer and consumer In Japan, the market volume declined by around 33%, while in
prices. The rate of inflation in the eurozone rose to 8.4% in China the market more than halved (-71%), also due to special
2022. This increased the pressure on the European Central effects. The Indian market for trucks over 9t, on the other
Bank (“ECB”) to raise its key interest rate. The GDP growth hand, recovered from the low level of the prior year with
rate in the eurozone in particular in the first half of the year growth of around 54%.
was favored by the prior-year low level due to the pandemic,
meaning that real GDP still increased by 3.5% in 2022. The performance of important sales markets for heavy buses
was mixed in the reporting year. For example, the market vol-
ume in the EU30 region fell compared with the prior year and
thus remained below the pre-pandemic level. In Brazil, on the
other hand, the market for heavy buses showed a clear upward
trend.
Business development
Unit sales in the Daimler Buses segment were significantly
above the prior-year level in 2022 at 24,041 units (+28%). The
Unit sales increase in unit sales resulted primarily from stronger market
Daimler Truck sold a total of 520,291 (2021: 455,445) vehicles demand in Brazil, our main market in Latin America. With
in 2022, which was significantly above the prior-year level. The 10,783 units in Brazil, we sold 70% more than in the prior year.
forecast of 500 to 520 thousand for 2022 provided in the com- In the EU30 region, unit sales of 6,325 were at the prior-year
bined management report for 2021 was therefore confirmed. level. Accordingly, unit sales corresponded to the forecast of
20 to 25 thousand units provided at the beginning of 2022.
The Trucks North America segment achieved unit sales of
186,779 trucks (+15%) in 2022 due to strong market demand In the 2022 reporting year, the Financial Services segment
and despite bottlenecks in supply chains. In the US, we were leased or financed more than one in five new vehicles of the
able to significantly increase our unit sales with157,878 trucks Daimler Truck Group in15 markets. At year-end 2022, the seg-
by13% compared with the prior year. In Canada, we also ment had a total contract volume of €24.2 billion (+43%). This
achieved a significant increase in unit sales to14,539 (2021: growth was partly attributable to positive exchange rates in
12,389) units and in Mexico to12,000 (2021: 7,685) units. As a North and South America. Adjusted for exchange rate effects,
result, the Trucks North America segment was able to achieve the contract volume increased by 38%. On the other hand, the
the forecast of175 to195 thousand for 2022 provided in the growth was due to the start of operations in Germany and the
combined management report for 2021. acquisition of further companies and business operations from
the Mercedes-Benz Group after the spin-off (so-called Phase 2
In the year 2022, the Mercedes-Benz segment sold signifi- transactions). Adjusted for exchange-rate effects and adjusted
cantly more than in the prior year with166,369 (2021:141,331) for the contract volume of these markets, this equates to
vehicles. Despite the bottlenecks in the supply chains, the growth of19%. Financial Services concluded worldwide new
increase in unit sales was mainly due to market recovery in the financing and leasing contracts in a total amount of €9.4 billion
EU30 region. Our unit sales in the EU30 region increased sig- last year (+63%). As a result, new business came within the
nificantly by 30% to 86,287 units. In addition, unit sales forecast range of €9 to €10 billion in the Interim Report for the
increased by 4% to 36,188 units in Brazil, our main market in second quarter of 2022, but exceeded the original forecast
Latin America. As a result, the Mercedes-Benz segment was from the combined management report 2021 (€8 to €9 billion).
able to achieve the forecast of155 to175 thousand units.
Unit sales in the Trucks Asia segment increased significantly B.02
by 9% to 155,967 trucks. Despite the bottlenecks in the supply Unit sales1
chains, the increase in unit sales was mainly due to the mar-
2022 2021 % change
kets outside Japan. In a recovering market in Indonesia, we
Daimler Truck Group 520,291 455,445 +14
sold a total of 43,963 units, representing a significant increase
Trucks North America 186,779 162,156 +15
of 29%. In the EU30 region, we recorded a significant increase
Mercedes-Benz 166,369 141,331 +18
in unit sales of18% to 9,449 units compared with the prior-year
Trucks Asia 155,967 143,411 +9
level. Conversely, in Japan, we recorded a13% decline in unit
Daimler Buses 24,041 18,736 +28
sales to 28,304 trucks and buses due to bottlenecks in supply
1 The total of the segments does not correspond to unit sales at Group level
chains. The forecast of140 to160 thousand units has there-
due to eliminations between the segments.
fore been reached.
Unit sales from our Chinese joint venture Beijing Foton Daimler
Automotive Co., Ltd. (“BFDA”), to which trucks of the Auman B.03
brand and, since the fourth quarter of 2022, Mercedes-Benz Unit sales structure of Daimler Truck
trucks produced in China also contribute, remained signifi-
cantly below the prior year’s level at 49,159 units (2021:
102,981). The development of unit sales was affected by the EU30 18%
EU
significant market decline due to the introduction of the China Latin America1 13%
NAFTA
VI emission standard and the general economic situation in North America 36%
Latein
China. Asia 25%
Other markets 8% Übrige
Asien
1 Excluding Mexico.
Investment and research activities
B.04
Market shares1
Investments in property, plant and equipment
2022 2021 2022/2021
The investments in property, plant and equipment of the
Change in
Daimler Truck Group amounted to €898 million for 2022 and
percentage
in % points were therefore higher than in the prior year (2021: €762 mil-
Trucks North America lion). This was above the slight increase forecast for 2022 in
North America2 Class 8 40.0 40.0 - the combined management report 2021.
North America2 Class 6-7 37.6 35.9 +1.7
North America2 Class 6-8 39.3 38.7 +0.6 All segments focused on transformation. Investments were
made primarily in new technologies (for example emission-free
Mercedes-Benz vehicles and digitalization) and the further development of
EU303 HDT 20.0 18.6 +1.4 existing products, as well as in the expansion of sales and
EU303 MDT 29.3 22.6 +6.7 spare parts centers.
EU303 HDT/MDT 20.9 19.1 +1.8
Investments in property, plant and equipment in the Trucks
1 Based on information from registration authorities of the regions and on
estimates in individual markets. North America segment amounted to €216 million and were
2 United States, Canada and Mexico. therefore at the prior-year level (2021: €214 million). They
3 European Union, United Kingdom, Switzerland and Norway.
largely comprised investments in future technologies (for
example emission-free vehicles), automated driving and the
Order situation expansion of the spare parts center to further strengthen our
The vehicle segments produce both vehicles preconfigured by aftersales business.
the manufacturer and vehicles equipped to order in accor-
dance with customers’ requirements. In this context, we flexi- The investments in property, plant and equipment in the
bly adjust capacities for individual models to changing demand. Mercedes-Benz segment were mainly influenced by the
expansion of its own sales structure, the further development
The incoming orders in financial year 2022 were at a high level of the product portfolio in Latin America and optimization of
due to our attractive product portfolio and strong market the powertrain. Overall, investments in property, plant and
demand. The bottlenecks in the supply chains meant that we equipment amounted to €431 million by the end of 2022 and
were not able to fully serve customer demand and our order were therefore significantly higher than in the prior year (2021:
backlog was slightly above the prior-year level. €353 million).
Investments in property, plant and equipment in the Trucks
Asia segment amounted to €153 million in 2022 and were
therefore significantly higher than in the prior year (2021:
€128 million). These were mainly driven by investments in
e-mobility, digitalization and new technologies as well as the
expansion and optimization of infrastructure. These invest-
ments supported the transformation to new technologies,
establishment of a sustainable and competitive product portfo-
lio and increased market share.
At €85 million, investments in property, plant and equipment in
the Daimler Buses segment were significantly higher than in
the prior year (2021: €62 million). The focal points in 2022
were the construction of the new Bus World Home Service
Center in Berlin and the expansion of the site in Holysov,
Czech Republic. Further measures aimed to increase efficiency
in the existing product portfolio in order to further strengthen
competitiveness.
Research and development In 2022, research and development expenditure in the
Daimler Truck adheres to its strategic objectives in its research Mercedes-Benz segment continued to focus on zero-emission
and development expenditure (including capitalization) and vehicles, powertrain projects for complying with future emis-
focuses on transformation. In 2022, the focus was on emis- sion standards and the further development of the product
sion-free vehicles and automated driving. For example, there portfolio in Latin America. Services amounted to €736 million,
has been development and mileage for automated driving was therefore slightly above the prior year’s level (2021: €690 mil-
advanced. Furthermore, investments have also been made in lion).
fuel efficiency and optimizing the existing product portfolio.
Research and development expenditure amounted to The research and development expenditure of the Trucks Asia
€1,785 million (including capitalization) and were therefore segment of €194 million was slightly below the prior year’s
slightly higher than in the prior year (2021: €1,574 million). This level (2021: €204 million), largely influenced by the exchange
confirms the forecast for 2022 as a whole provided in the com- rate against the Japanese yen. The focus was on the develop-
bined management report for 2021. ment of all-electric vehicles and digital services as well as the
further development of the existing portfolio.
Of the development costs, €167 million was capitalized (2021:
€176 million), equivalent to a capitalization rate of 9% (2021: In the Daimler Buses segment, €148 million was invested in
11%). Amortization of capitalized research and development research and development in 2022 (2021: €123 million). Expen-
expenditure amounted to €120 million in the year under review diture was therefore significantly above the prior year’s level.
(2021: €183 million). The focus in 2022 continued to be on the transformation of the
existing product portfolio with regard to emission-free drives
Expenditure on research and development in the Trucks (for example, eCitaro Fuel Cell). In addition, the current diesel
North America segment amounted to €599 million and thus product portfolio has been further developed.
rose significantly compared with the prior year (2021:
€467 million), which was significantly influenced by the
exchange rate. Thereby the focus was on the continued devel-
opment of zero-emission vehicles, increasing fuel efficiency
and performance of existing products.
Profitability, Liquidity and Capital Resources,
Financial Position
Profitability
In order to provide better insight into profitability, liquidity and
capital resources, and financial position, the condensed con-
solidated statement of income, condensed consolidated state- Statement of income of the Daimler Truck Group
ment of cash flows, and condensed consolidated statement of The revenue of the Daimler Truck Group amounted to
financial position are presented for, in addition to the Daimler €50.9 billion in 2022 and was significantly above the figure for
Truck Group, for the “Industrial Business” and for “Financial the prior year (2021: €39.8 billion). At €49.2 billion, the reve-
Services.” The Industrial Business and Financial Services col- nue of Industrial Business was also significantly above the pri-
umns represent a business perspective. The Industrial Busi- or-year figure of €38.6 billion. The increase in revenue was
ness comprises the vehicle segments Trucks North America, mainly due to the significant increase in unit sales, improved
Mercedes-Benz, Trucks Asia and Daimler Buses, and the rec- net pricing in the automotive segments and a favorable
onciliation. Financial Services corresponds to the Financial exchange-rate development (in particular the US-dollar).
Services segment. The eliminations of intra-Group transac-
tions between the Industrial Business and Financial Services The revenue forecast for the Daimler Truck Group of €45.5 to
are generally allocated to the Industrial Business and are €47.5 billion for 2022 in the combined management report
reported in the reconciliation. 2021 was therefore significantly exceeded. In the interim
report for the third quarter of 2022, the forecast was
Due to rounding, individual figures may not add up precisely to increased to €50.0 to €52.0 billion. This expectation was ful-
the totals shown and percentages presented may not accu- filled at the end of the year. Similarly, the revenue forecast for
rately reflect the absolute values to which they relate. the Industrial Business of €44.0 to €46.0 billion from the com-
bined management report 2021 was significantly exceeded.
The increased revenue forecast for the Industrial Business to
between €48.0 to €50.0 billion in the interim report for the
third quarter of 2022 was met at the end of the year. The
adjusted return on sales of the Industrial Business, at 7.7%,
falls within the forecasted bandwidth of between 7% and 9%.
 B.05  B.06
B.05
Revenue by segment and region
2022 2021 22/21
in millions of euros % change
Daimler Truck Group 50,945 39,764 +28
Segments
Trucks North America 22,039 15,782 +40
Mercedes-Benz 20,213 16,113 +25
Trucks Asia 6,499 5,969 +9
Daimler Buses 3,689 3,211 +15
Financial Services 1,759 1,122 +57
Reconciliation -3,253 -2,434 -34
Regions
Europe 15,330 13,091 +17
of which, Germany 5,532 5,266 +5
North America 22,587 16,216 +39
of which, United States 19,175 13,786 +39
Asia 6,546 5,690 +15
of which, Japan 2,864 3,248 -12
Latin America1 4,587 3,011 +52
Other markets 1,895 1,756 +8
1 Excluding Mexico.
Cost of sales came to €41.5 billion in the reporting year, a Other financial income, net increased to €90 million (2021:
significant increase compared to the prior year of 28%. The €80 million).  B.06
increase in cost of sales was mainly due to the significant
increase in unit sales and cost of materials, exchange-rate Earnings before interest and taxes (“EBIT”) of €3.5 billion in
effects as well as additional costs and inefficiencies due to the 2022 financial year was at the figure for the prior year of
bottlenecks in the supply chains. €3.4 billion. Positive effects on EBIT resulted mainly from
increased unit sales due to market recovery, improved net
Overall, gross profit remained at the prior-year level at 18.5%. pricing, positive effects from exchange-rate developments,
 B.06 and a positive development of the aftersales business. This
was offset by the absence of the positive earnings effect from
Selling expenses increased by €0.2 billion to €2.9 billion, the fuel cell joint venture cellcentric GmbH & Co. KG. The fore-
among other things due to impairments in connection with cast of a slight decrease for 2022 made in the combined man-
Russia-Ukraine war. In relation to revenue, selling expenses agement report 2021 was therefore exceeded at the end of the
decreased from 6.8% to 5.7%.  B.06 year. In addition, the forecast of a slight increase in EBIT in the
interim report for the third quarter of 2022 was also exceeded.
In the past financial year, general administrative expenses Adjusted EBIT came to €4.0 billion (2021: €2.6 billion). The
increased significantly from €1.6 billion to €2.0 billion. The forecast of a significant increase in adjusted EBIT for 2022
increase was mainly due to expenses in connection with the referred to in the combined management report for 2021 was
spin-off and expenses for personnel cost-optimization pro- thus confirmed.  B.06
grams. In relation to revenue, general administrative expenses
were on prior-year level with 3.8%.  B.06 The reconciliation from EBIT to adjusted EBIT is shown in table.
 B.08
At €1.6 billion, research and non-capitalized development
costs in the year 2022 were significantly above the prior-year Interest income/expense, net improved from minus €83 mil-
level (2021: €1.4 billion). Further information on the Group’s lion to minus €46 million.  B.06
E
research and development activities can be found in Eco-
nomic Conditions and Business Development in the Combined The tax expense recorded under income taxes decreased
Management Report.  B.06 from €891 million to €686 million. The effective tax rate was
therefore19.9% in 2022 financial year, which was influenced by
Other operating income of €0.7 billion was significantly income from deferred taxes of €376 million mainly in connec-
below the level of the prior year (2021: €1.7 billion). In the prior tion with temporary valuation differences.  B.06
year, the profit from the loss of control over the joint venture
cellcentric GmbH & Co. KG (“cellcentric”) led to a positive The Group’s net profit of €2.8 billion was significantly above
effect on earnings of €1,215 million.  B.06 the result for the prior year (2021: €2.4 billion). Of the net
profit, €99 million was attributable to non-controlling inter-
In 2022, profit on equity-method investments, net, of minus ests (2021: €36 million). The share of net profit attributable
€226 million was significantly below the level of the prior year to shareholders of Daimler Truck Holding AG in the net
(2021: €106 million). On the one hand, this development was profit amounted to €2.7 billion (2021: €2.3 billion).  B.06
mainly due to the negative earnings contribution of the Beijing
Foton Daimler Automotive Co., Ltd. joint venture (“BFDA”), Further information on the individual items of the consolidated
E
which was attributable to a significant decline in unit sales and statement of income is provided in Notes 5 ff of the
market. On the other hand, the development was due to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
impairment of the equity-method carrying amount of Daimler
Kamaz Truck Holding GmbH (“DKTH”). Due to the Rus-
sia-Ukraine war, the Group decided on February 27, 2022 to
cease the business activities in Russia until further notice. As a
result, on December 30, 2022 the Daimler Kamaz Truck Hold-
ing GmbH was sold. Therefore an impairment test was per-
formed in the first quarter of 2022 resulting in an impairment
of the equity-method carrying amount.  B.06
B.06
Condensed consolidated statement of income
Daimler Truck Group Industrial Business Financial Services
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
In millions of euros
Revenue 50,945 39,764 49,186 38,641 1,759 1,122
Cost of sales -41,513 -32,518 -40,224 -31,812 -1,289 -706
Gross profit 9,432 7,245 8,963 6,829 470 416
Selling expenses -2,928 -2,722 -2,806 -2,625 -121 -97
General administrative expenses -1,957 -1,635 -1,741 -1,481 -216 -154
Research and non-capitalized
development costs -1,618 -1,398 -1,618 -1,398 - -
Other operating income/expense 703 1,681 520 1,671 181 10
Profit/loss on equity-method investments, net -226 106 -226 106 0 0
Other financial income/expense, net 90 80 93 82 -4 -3
EBIT 3,496 3,357 3,185 3,184 310 173
Interest income/expense net -46 -83 -41 -80 -5 -3
Profit before income taxes 3,449 3,274 3,144 3,104 305 171
Income taxes -686 -891 -630 -818 -56 -73
Net profit 2,763 2,383 2,514 2,286 249 97
thereof attributable to non-controlling interests 99 36
thereof attributable to the shareholders of Daimler Truck Holding AG 2,665 2,347
Earnings per share (in euros)
based on profit attributable to the shareholders of Daimler Truck Holding AG
Basic and diluted 3.24 2.85 - - - -
Revenue and EBIT of the segments The increase in unit sales, which was due in particular to mar-
The revenue of the Trucks North America segment increased ket recoveries in the EU30 region (European Union, United
in 2022 financial year, among other things, due to the signifi- Kingdom, Switzerland and Norway), had a positive impact on
cant increase in unit sales by 40% to €22,039 million. gross profit. Additional positive effects resulted from improved
net pricing, favorable exchange-rate development, positive
The increase in unit sales, particularly in the North America development of the aftersales business and the license agree-
region, had a positive impact on gross profit. Additional posi- ment with Beijing Foton Daimler Automotive Co., Ltd. However,
tive effects resulted from improved net pricing, exchange-rate the increased cost of materials had a negative impact on the
development and a positive development in the aftersales busi- result. Gross profit increased from16.3% to18.2%. The adjust-
ness. This was offset by additional costs and bottlenecks in ments included expenses for personnel cost-optimization pro-
the supply chains and increased cost of materials and func- grams of €169 million (2021: €113 million) and expenses in
tional costs due to inflation and development of personnel connection with the spin-off of €67 million (2021: €64 million)
costs. Overall, the gross profit increased from17.1% to17.5%. and expenses in connection with the Russia-Ukraine war in the
The adjustments included expenses in connection with the amount of €205 million (M&A transactions).
spin-off for €3 million (2021: €13 million).
EBIT amounted to €1,188 million (2021: €483 million), adjusted
EBIT amounted to €2,376 million (2021: €1,440 million), EBIT to €1,629 million (2021: €770 million). The adjusted return
adjusted EBIT to €2,379 million (2021: €1,452 million). At on sales of 8.1% was above that of the prior year of 4.8%. This
10.8%, the adjusted return on sales was above the adjusted was mainly due to the development in the new vehicle and
return on sales in the prior year of 9.2% and within the forecast aftersales business as well as the license agreement with Bei-
range of 10% to 12%.  B.07  B.08 jing Foton Daimler Automotive Co., Ltd. The adjusted return on
sales forecast of 6% to 8% for 2022 in the combined manage-
The revenue of the Mercedes-Benz segment increased by 25% ment report 2021 was therefore exceeded. At the end of the
to €20,213 million in the 2022 financial year, essentially due to year, adjusted return on sales was within the forecast corridor,
the significant increase in unit sales. which was increased in the interim report for the third quarter
of 2022 to 7% to 9%.  B.07  B.08
The revenue of Trucks Asia increased in the 2022 financial The business development of Financial Services in 2022 was
year, among other aspects, due to the significant increase in materially impacted by the integration of the acquired financial
unit sales to €6,499 million (2021: €5,969 million). services business in the region of Europe and South America.
This, combined with the favorable exchange-rate development,
Positive effects on gross profit resulted from the increase in resulted in a significant increase in new business and the con-
unit sales, which was mainly due to market recovery in Indone- tract volume. Compared with the prior year, this led to a signifi-
sia, India and EU30 regions, improved net pricing and a posi- cant increase in revenue (+57%).
tive development in the aftersales business. This was offset by
the decrease in unit sales in Japan, the equity-method invest- Gross profit for Financial Services improved slightly compared
ments of the joint venture Beijing Foton Daimler Automotive with the prior year, in particular due to an increase in Operat-
Co., Ltd. due to the significant market decline in China, ing profit of financing and leasing business in North America as
increased cost of materials and additional costs as well as bot- well as favorable exchange-rate development. Opposite effects
tlenecks in the supply chains. Furthermore, the economic resulted in particular from higher costs due to the significant
effects of the COVID-19-related lockdowns adversely affected increase in new business and a significant increase in
the result. Gross profit thus decreased from 20.1% to17.6%. project-related expenses. These included the integration of the
The adjustments included special effects in connection with acquired financial services business and ensuring business
the spin-off in the amount of €1 million (2021: €10 million) and operations.
impairment in connection with the Russia-Ukraine war in the
amount of €8 million (M&A transactions). The major increase in other income/expenses in 2022 com-
pared with the prior year was due in particular to non-recurring
EBIT amounted to €161 million (2021: €417 million), adjusted income in connection with the acquisition of the financial
EBIT to €171 million (2021: €427 million). At 2.6%, the adjusted services business in the region Europe and South America.
return on sales was lower than the adjusted return on sales in This income in the amount of €117 million (2021: €20 million
the prior year of 7.2%. The expectation of the adjusted return expenses) is fully included in the adjustments (M&A trans-
on sales of 3% to 5% forecast for 2022 in the combined man- actions).
agement report 2021 could not be met due to the market
development in China. The forecast of1% to 3% updated in the This led to an EBIT of €310 million (2021: €173 million). The
interim report for the second quarter of 2022 is hereby con- adjusted EBIT of €193 million remained at the prior-year level
firmed.  B.07  B.08 (2021: €193 million). The resulting return on equity was
adjusted accordingly from 15.9% (2021: 11.1%) to an adjusted
The revenue of Daimler Buses increased in the 2022 financial return on equity of 9.9% (2021: 12.4%). As a result, adjusted
year, among other aspects, due to significant increase in unit return on equity was within the increased forecast corridor of
sales of15% to €3,689 million. 9% to11% in the interim report for the second quarter of 2022,
but exceeded the forecast from the combined management
The increase in unit sales was mainly attributable to the region report 2021 (5% to 7%).
Latin America, in particular the main market Brazil, which posi-
tively influenced gross profit. Further positive effects resulted The reconciliation of the operating segments’ EBIT to Group
from improved net pricing, the exchange-rate development EBIT comprises gains and losses at the corporate level as well
and a positive development in the aftersales business. Oppo- as the effects on earnings of eliminating intra-Group trans-
site effects were mainly due to the increased cost of materials. actions between the segments.
As a result, gross profit increased from10.5% to11.6%. The
adjustments included expenses for personnel cost-optimiza- Items at the corporate level resulted in expenses of €421 mil-
tion programs of €56 million (2021: €28 million) and expenses lion in the 2022 financial year (2021: €999 million). In the prior
in connection with the sale of Minibus GmbH in the amount of year, income from the fuel-cell joint venture cellcentric GmbH
€7 million (2021: €27 million), expenses in connection with the & Co. KG led to a positive earnings effect of €1,215 million.
spin-off of €2 million (2021: €20 million) and expenses in con- Adjustments in the amount of €61 million (2021: minus
nection with the Russia-Ukraine war in amount of €1 million €1,209 million) included expenses in connection with the spin-
(M&A transactions). off (M&A transactions).  B.08
EBIT amounted to minus €52 million (2021: minus €152 million) The elimination of intra-Group transactions resulted in an
and adjusted EBIT €14 million (2021: minus €77 million). The expense in the 2022 financial year of €67 million (2021: €3 mil-
adjusted return on sales of 0.4% was above that of the prior lion).
year of minus 2.4%. The Daimler Buses segment was thus able
to confirm the forecasted adjusted return on sales of over 0%.
 B.07  B.08
B.07
EBIT of the Industrial Business
Industrial Trucks
Business North America Mercedes-Benz Trucks Asia Daimler Buses Reconciliation
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
In millions of euros
Revenue 49,186 38,641 22,039 15,782 20,213 16,113 6,499 5,969 3,689 3,211 -3,253 -2,434
Cost of sales -40,224 -31,812 -18,178 -13,099 -16,533 -13,489 -5,353 -4,770 -3,261 -2,873 3,102 2,418
Gross profit 8,963 6,829 3,861 2,683 3,680 2,625 1,145 1,199 427 338 -151 -15
Selling expenses -2,806 -2,625 -432 -310 -1,586 -1,446 -658 -698 -247 -245 116 73
General administrative
expenses -1,741 -1,481 -609 -564 -724 -552 -243 -226 -221 -199 56 60
Research and
non-capitalized
development costs -1,618 -1,398 -599 -467 -616 -570 -161 -164 -134 -108 -108 -90
Other income/
expense 387 1,859 155 98 433 426 77 306 123 61 -402 968
EBIT 3,185 3,184 2,376 1,440 1,188 483 161 417 -52 -152 -488 996
B.08
Reconciliation of EBIT to adjusted EBIT
Trucks Financial Daimler Truck
North America Mercedes-Benz Trucks Asia Daimler Buses Services Reconciliation Group
in millions of euros
2022
EBIT 2,376 1,188 161 -52 310 -488 3,496
L egal proceedings
(and related measures) - - - - - - -
Restructuring measures - 169 - 56 - - 224
M&A transactions 3 273 10 11 -117 61 240
Adjusted EBIT 2,379 1,629 171 14 193 -427 3,959
Return on sales/equity (in %) 10.8 5.9 2.5 -1.4 15.9 - -
Adjusted return on sales/equity (in %)1 10.8 8.1 2.6 0.4 9.9 - -
2021
EBIT 1,440 483 417 -152 173 996 3,357
L egal proceedings
(and related measures) - - - - - - -
Restructuring measures - 113 - 28 - - 141
M&A transactions 13 174 10 47 20 -1,209 -946
Adjusted EBIT 1,452 770 427 -77 193 -214 2,552
Return on sales/equity (in %) 9.1 3.0 7.0 -4.7 11.1 - -
Adjusted return on sales/equity (in %) 9.2 4.8 7.2 -2.4 12.4 - -
1 The adjusted return on sales is calculated as the ratio of adjusted EBIT to revenue. The adjusted return on equity is determined as the ratio of adjusted EBIT
to the average quarterly equity.
Liquidity and capital resources
Market price risk management aims to limit the impact of
fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and
Principles and objectives of the financial management commodity prices on the earnings of the segments and the
Group. To this end, the Group-wide risk volume (“exposure”)
Financial management at the Daimler Truck Group comprises for these market price risks is first determined. For currencies,
capital structure management, cash and liquidity management, net exposure constitutes the relevant risk volume, which is
the management of market price risks (currencies, interest reduced by netting foreign currency items among the Group
rates, commodity prices) as well as the management of pen- companies. The Group then makes its hedging decisions on
sion assets and credit-default and country risks. Global finan- this basis. This includes the volume to be hedged, the period
cial management was carried out uniformly by the Treasury to be hedged, and the choice of hedging instruments. The
organization of the Daimler Truck Group within the framework hedging strategy is defined at Group level and implemented
of the legal provisions for all Group companies. It fundamen- uniformly. Decision-making bodies are internal committees for
tally operates within a predefined framework of guidelines, lim- market price risks that meet regularly.
its and benchmarks; organizationally, it is separate at the oper-
ational level from the settlement, financial control, reporting The management of pension assets (“plan assets”) includes
and accounting functions. the investment of the assets held to cover the pension obliga-
tions. The plan assets are legally separate from corporate
Capital structure management arranges the capital struc- assets and are mainly invested in funds; they are not available
ture of the Group and its subsidiaries. The capital resources of for general corporate purposes. On the basis of the expected
the financial services, production, sales or financing compa- development of the pension obligations, the plan assets are
nies of Daimler Truck are allocated in accordance with the prin- spread across various asset categories, for example equities,
ciples of cost- and risk-optimized financial and capital fixed-income securities, alternative investments and real
resources. estate, with the assistance of risk/return optimization. The
Group measures the performance of its asset investments on
Liquidity management is intended to ensure that the Group the basis of defined reference indices. The risks of capital
is always able to meet its payment obligations. To this end, the investments are limited by means of a Group-wide guideline. In
Group records the cash flows from operating activities and addition, local regulations are in place for the risk management
from financial transactions in a rolling planning. Financing of individual plan assets. Additional information on pension
E
requirements are met by means of suitable liquidity manage- plans and similar obligations is provided in Note 23.
ment instruments (for example bank loans, bonds); the Group
invests surplus liquidity in the money and/or capital market, The risk volume considered in the management of credit
taking expected returns and risks into account. Factoring is default risks includes all creditor positions of the Daimler
frequently used to a limited extent to manage liquidity. Truck Group worldwide vis-à-vis financial institutions, issuers
of securities and customers in the Financial Services business
Our goal is to provide the liquidity that is deemed to be neces- and the Industrial Business. The credit risk vis-à-vis financial
sary at the best possible cost. In addition to operating liquidity, institutions and issuers of securities arises primarily from the
the Daimler Truck Group has further liquidity reserves that are investment of liquid funds in the context of liquidity manage-
available at short notice. The components of these additional ment and from the use of derivative financial instruments. The
resources are receivables from the financial services business management of these credit risks is essentially based on an
that can be securitized on the capital market, a contractually internal limit system that is geared to the creditworthiness of
committed syndicated credit facility (“revolving credit facility”), the financial institution or issuer. The credit risk vis-à-vis cus-
and an additional revolving credit facility agreed in 2022. tomers in the Industrial Business results from the relationship
with authorized dealers and general agents, other corporate
Cash management determines cash requirements and sur- customers and private customers. Credit risk management is
pluses on a centralized basis. In this context, liquidity is con- based on a uniform risk management process. Depending on
centrated centrally in bank accounts of the Daimler Truck the identified risk, credit collateral is requested. Financial Ser-
Group via cash pooling procedures in various currencies. Most vices manages the credit risk with respect to end customers in
payments between Group companies are made via internal its financial services business on the basis of a uniform risk
clearing accounts, so that the number of external payment management process. This process defines minimum require-
flows is kept to a minimum. The Daimler Truck Group has ments for the credit and leasing business and sets standards
established standardized processes and systems to manage for credit processes and for the identification, measurement,
its bank and internal clearing accounts and to carry out auto- and management of risks. Key elements for the management
mated payment transactions. of credit risks are an appropriate credit assessment supported
by statistical risk classification procedures, as well as a struc-
tured portfolio analysis and monitoring.
Country risk management includes several risk aspects: The Prior to the acquisition of the Financial Services business,
risk from capital investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, pre-existing contractual relationships existed between the
the risk from cross-border financing of Group companies in Daimler Truck Group as acquirer and the acquired Financial
risk countries, and the risk from direct sales to customers in Services business in connection (“Pre-existing Relationships”)
those countries. The Daimler Truck Group has an internal rat- with the transfer of trucks and buses to the Financial Services
ing system in which all countries in which the Daimler Truck companies for lease to end customers and the assumption of
Group operates are classified into risk categories. Risks from risks and rewards arising from residual values. These contrac-
cross-border receivables are partially covered by export credit tual relationships were terminated with the acquisition of the
insurance, letters of credit and bank guarantees in favor of the Financial Services companies. Fulfillment of the pre-existing
Daimler Truck Group. Furthermore, an internal committee relationships at fair value led to cash outflow of €0.2 billion.
determines and limits the amount of hard currency portfolios These are reported in the cash flows from operating activities
at Financial Services companies in risk countries. and allocated in full to the Financial Services segment.
Further information on the management of market price, credit In prior year, other non-cash expense and income and income
E
default and liquidity risks is provided in Note 34. from sale of assets included a special effect in connection with
the sale of 50.00% of the shares in cellcentric GmbH & Co. KG.
Cash flows Furthermore, the allocations of €0.3 billion to pension funds in
Germany and increased tax payments, particularly in the USA,
The cash flows from operating activities  B.09 in 2022 had a negative impact on the cash flows from operating activi-
resulted in a cash outflow of €0.5 billion (2021: cash inflow ties in 2022.
€2.1 billion). Profit before income taxes was above the prior
year. The positive result was mainly due to the improved net In the reporting period, payments were made for personnel
pricing of the vehicle segments, an advantageous exchange cost-optimization programs resulting from the agreed cost-cut-
rate development (in particular the US dollar) and a significant ting measures and socially responsible job reductions.
increase in unit sales.
The cash flows from investing activities  B.09 resulted in
The increase in inventories was mainly due to bottlenecks in a cash outflow of €4.2 billion (2021: cash inflow €4.3 billion).
the supply chains, as well as a high number of vehicles in the The decrease compared to prior year resulted on the one hand
delivery process. In addition, raw materials and supplies from the fact that, until the spin-off in December 2021, Daimler
increased due to the expected production volume for 2023. Truck was still in cash pooling with the Mercedes-Benz Group
This, together with the increase in trade receivables, compen- AG. On the other hand, cash of €2.0 billion was transferred to
sated for by an increase in trade payables, led to a negative the Mercedes-Benz Group in 2022 as consideration in connec-
change in working capital of €0.9 billion (2021: €0.5 billion). tion with the acquired financial services business. Due to the
Working capital corresponds to the total of inventories, trade repayment of financing liabilities by Daimler Truck, €1.3 billion
receivables, and trade payables. of this amount was allocated to the Industrial Business. In
addition, shares in public funds amounting to €0.7 billion were
The changes in trade receivables of the Daimler Truck Group acquired in the financial year.
included positive effects from factoring activities of €0.2 bil-
lion (2021: €30 million) with external banks. The receivables Furthermore, the sale of 50.00% of cellcentric GmbH & Co. KG
sold were derecognized as all risks and rewards were trans- to the Volvo Group significantly affected cash flow in 2021 and
ferred to the banks. resulted in a cash inflow of €0.6 billion.
The decline in cash flows from operating activities was also
due to the increase in receivables from Financial Services. The
positive performance of the portfolio, in particular in the North
and South American markets, led to significantly higher receiv-
ables from financial services, which more than offset repay-
ments from the current portfolio.
B.09
Condensed consolidated statement of cash flows
Daimler Truck Group Industrial Business Financial Services
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
In millions of euros
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 7,244 1,663 6,904 1,556 340 107
Profit before income taxes 3,449 3,274 3,145 3,103 304 171
Depreciation and amortization/impairments 1,120 1,160 1,105 1,110 15 50
Other non-cash expense and income and
income from sale of assets 285 -1,361 424 -1,382 -139 21
Change in operating assets and liabilities
Inventories -1,143 -1,307 -1,122 -1,309 -21 2
Trade receivables -631 -348 -569 -192 -62 -156
Trade payables 904 1,171 933 1,144 -29 27
Receivables from financial services -3,385 66 -2 - -3,383 66
Vehicles on operating leases -141 186 119 179 -260 7
Other operating assets and liabilities 106 -118 130 -127 -24 9
Dividends received
from equity-method investments 13 12 13 12 - -
Income taxes paid/refunded -1,100 -635 -1,147 -524 47 -111
Cash flows from operating activities -523 2,100 3,030 2,014 -3,553 86
Additions to property, plant and equipment and
intangible assets -1,132 -1,080 -1,102 -1,061 -30 -19
Net cash flows from the acquisition of Financial Services business -2,004 - -1,271 - -732 -
Investments in shareholdings and proceeds from disposal of other shareholdings -161 468 -161 468 - -
Acquisition and disposal of marketable debt securities
and similar investments -989 4,662 -984 4,669 -5 -7
Other 119 210 120 207 -1 2
Cash flows from investing activities -4,167 4,260 -3,399 4,284 -768 -24
Change in financing liabilities 3,409 6,415 1,696 5,711 1,713 704
Dividends paid -52 -26 -52 -26 - -
Transactions with the Mercedes-Benz Group until the spin-off -23 -7,264 21 -2,559 -44 -4,704
Internal equity and financing transactions - - -2,656 -4,165 2,656 4,165
Cash flows from financing activities 3,334 -875 -991 -1,040 4,325 165
Effect of exchange-rate changes on cash and cash equivalents
and cash equivalents 56 96 54 90 2 6
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 5,944 7,244 5,597 6,904 347 340
The cash flows from financing activities  B.09 resulted in Free cash flow of the Industrial Business
a cash inflow of €3.3 billion (2021: cash outflow €0.9 billion). The measure used by Daimler Truck for the financial strength
The change compared with the prior year resulted mainly from of its industrial activities is the free cash flow of the Indus-
borrowing on the international money and capital markets in the trial Business  B.10, which is derived from the published
amount of €4.1 billion. Debt financing was provided by issuing cash flows from operating and investing activities. The cash
bonds in the US, Canada and the Netherlands. The cash inflows flows from the purchase and sale of marketable debt securities
were reduced by repayments to external banks in 2022. and similar cash investments included in cash flows from
investing activities are eliminated, as these securities are clas-
In addition, the decrease in payments due to transactions with sified as cash and cash equivalents and their change is there-
the Mercedes-Benz Group prior to the spin-off had a positive fore not part of the free cash flow of the Industrial Business.
effect on cash flow from financing activities in the comparative The repayment of the financing liabilities by the Daimler Truck
period. In 2022, this led to a cash outflow of €23 million Group, which is part of the transferred consideration of the
(December 2021: €7.3 billion). acquired financial services business and was financed by the
Industrial Business, has been eliminated because it is not part
Since December 31, 2021, cash and cash equivalents decreased of the operating activities of the Industrial Business. On the
by €1.3 billion after adjusting for exchange-rate effects. Cash other hand, effects in connection with the recognition of rights
and cash equivalents reflect the cash inflows from the borrow- of use resulting from lessee accounting, which are mainly non-
ings in the United States, the Netherlands and Canada, as well cash, are included in the free cash flow of the Industrial Busi-
as the cash outflows from operational activities, the acquisition ness.
of the Financial Services business, shares in public funds, and
from the repayment of financing liabilities. Liquidity, which also
includes interest-bearing securities and similar financial invest-
Other adjustments include the cash flows to be reported in For a more transparent presentation of the ongoing business,
cash flows from financing activities in connection with the we identify and report an adjusted free cash flow of the
acquisition or disposal of interests in subsidiaries without a Industrial Business  B.10. The adjustments from M&A
control agreement. Other adjustments also include the Daimler transactions had a positive impact from the fuel cell joint ven-
Truck Headquarters allocation to Financial Services and ture cellcentric GmbH & Co. KG in the prior year, and in the
miscellaneous adjustments to reflect the economic amount of current year were effects from the spin-off of Daimler Truck-
investments or divestments that are wholly or partially non- Group from the former Daimler AG. Further adjustments
cash in nature. resulted from restructuring measures. The adjusted free cash
flow of the Industrial Business resulted in a cash inflow of
In 2022, the free cash flow of the Industrial Business €2.0 billion (2021: €1.3 billion).
amounted to €1.7 billion in 2022 and thus slightly exceeded
the forecast target at the prior-year level (2021: €1.6 billion), in
line with the combined management report 2021. B.10
Free cash flow of the Industrial Business
The increase in free cash flow of the Industrial Business by
2022 2021 22/21
€0.2 billion to €1.7 billion reflected the strong revenue and
In millions of euros Change
earnings situation. A higher level of inventories had the oppo-
site effect, on the one hand due to a high number of vehicles in
Cash flows from
the delivery process and on the other hand to bottlenecks in
operating activities 3,030 2,014 +1,016
the supply chains, mainly as a result of the global impact of the
Cash flows from
semiconductor bottleneck. By the end of 2022 fiscal year, how- investing activities -3,399 4,284 -7,683
ever, a significant improvement in the situation was achieved Change in marketable
with the help of the high efforts of working capital-manage- debt securities and
similar investments 984 -4,669 +5,653
ment. At the end of 2022, the inventory of new vehicles was
Right-of-use assets -190 -85 -105
only moderately above the level of the previous year. Irrespec-
Net cash flows from acquisition of
tive of this, inventories of raw materials and supplies increased
the Financial Services business 1,271 - +1,271
due to an expected increase in the production volume in 2023.
Other adjustments 50 12 +38
Free cash flow of the
Factoring activities with external banks in the amount of industrial Business 1,746 1,556 +190
€0.2 billion (2021: €30 million) and internal factoring agree- Restructuring measures 131 143 -12
ments with Financial Services in the amount of €0.4 billion M&A transactions 100 -392 +492
(2021: €0.3 billion) also had a positive impact on free cash flow Adjusted free cash flow of the
of the Industrial Business. Extensive customer advance pay- industrial Business 1,976 1,308 +668
ments also led to an increase in free cash flow of €0.1 billion.
Furthermore, M&A transitions from the fuel cell joint venture
cellcentric GmbH & Co. KG in 2021 and transactions in 2022
had an impact on the change in free cash flow of the Industrial
Business compared to 2021. In the area of automated driving,
in particular, higher disbursements compared to the previous
year of €0.1 billion were made for the ongoing build-up of tech-
nical development expertise and the recruitment of new
employees. In addition, there were higher income tax pay-
ments and a special allocation to the pension fund in 2022.
B.11 B.13
Reconciliation of CFBIT to free cash flow of the Industrial Business Reconciliation to adjusted CFBIT
2022 2021 Industrial Business
In millions of euros 2022 2021
In millions of euros
CFBIT of the Industrial Business 3,027 2,160
Income taxes paid/refunded -1,147 -524 CFBIT 3,027 2,160
Interest paid/received -12 -51 Restructuring measures 131 143
Other reconciliation items -122 -29 M&A transactions 100 -392
Free cash flow of the Industrial Business 1,746 1,556 Adjusted CFBIT 3,257 1,912
Adjusted EBIT 3,767 2,359
In addition to the derivation from the published cash flows from
Adjusted cash conversion rate1 0.9 0.8
operating and investing activities, the free cash flow of the
1 The adjusted cash conversion rate is calculated as the ratio of adjusted
Industrial Business can be derived from the cash flows before
CFBIT to adjusted EBIT.
interest and taxes (“CFBIT”) of the segments. The reconciliation
from the CFBIT of the Daimler Truck Group to the free cash flow
of the Industrial Business also includes taxes and interest paid.
In addition to the eliminations between the segments, the other The net liquidity of the Industrial Business  B.14 is calcu-
reconciliation items include items that are attributable to the lated as the total amount as shown in the balance sheet of
Industrial Business but for which the segments are not responsi- cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities and
ble. Table  B.11 shows the reconciliation from the CFBIT to the similar investments included in liquidity management, less the
free cash flow of the Industrial Business. currency-hedged nominal amounts of financing liabilities.
The CFBIT of the Industrial Business is derived from EBIT
and changes in operating assets and liabilities (“net assets”) B.14
and also includes additions of right-of-use assets. The settle- Net liquidity of the Industrial Business
ment of the existing financing liabilities by the Daimler Truck
Dec. 31, Dec. 31,
Group, which is part of the transferred consideration of the
2022 2021 22/21
acquired Financial Services business and was financed by the
In millions of euros Change
Industrial Business, is eliminated as it is not part of the operat-
ing activities of the Industrial Business. Table  B.12 shows
Cash and cash equivalents 5,597 6,904 -1,307
the composition of CFBIT for the Industrial Business. Table
Marketable debt securities
 B.13 shows for the Industrial Business the reconciliation and similar investments 1,092 99 +993
from CFBIT to adjusted CFBIT and the adjusted cash con- Liquidity 6,689 7,003 -314
version rate. Financing receivables/ liabilities 1,423 -966 +2,389
Market valuation and
An adjusted cash conversion rate of 0.9 was achieved for the currency hedging
for financing liabilities -582 -14 -568
Industrial Business of the Daimler Truck Group. This slightly
Financing receivables/liabilities
exceeds the previous year’s value of 0.8.
(nominal) 841 -980 +1,821
Net liquidity 7,530 6,024 +1,506
B.12
CFBIT
To the extent that the Group’s internal refinancing of the Finan-
Industrial Business
cial Services business is provided by the companies of the
2022 2021
Industrial Business, this amount is deducted in the calculation
In millions of euros
of the net debt of the Industrial Business.
EBIT 3,185 3,184
Compared with December 31, 2021 the net liquidity of the
Change in working capital -758 -356
Industrial Business increased by €1.5 billion to €7.5 billion. The
Net financial investments -162 505
increase was mainly due to the positive free cash flow of the
Net investments in property, plant and
Industrial Business of €1.7 billion. This was offset by equity
equipment and intangible assets -1,165 -1,069
increases in the Financial Services segment by the Industrial
Depreciation and amortization/impairments 1,105 1,110
Business.
Other 820 -1,214
CFBIT 3,027 2,160
Net debt at the Group level, which mainly resulted from the Refinancing
refinancing of the leasing and sales financing business,
increased compared to December 31, 2021 by €5.1 billion to The financing transactions carried out by Daimler Truck in the
€14.3 billion.  B.15 2022 financial year were primarily for the acquisition and refi-
nancing of the leasing and sales financing business. To this
end, Daimler Truck made use of various financing instruments
B.15 in different currencies and markets. These include bank loans,
Net debt of the Daimler Truck Group bonds with medium and long maturities in the capital market,
and the securitization of customer receivables in the financial
Dec. 31, Dec. 31,
services business (“asset-backed securities”).
2022 2021 22/21
In millions of euros Change
The situation on the money and capital markets in the report-
ing year was characterized by high volatility in view of geopolit-
Cash and cash equivalents 5,944 7,244 -1,300
ical and economic risks. The rapid and significant rise in inter-
Marketable debt securities
and similar investments 1,145 139 +1,006 est rates, particularly in the second and third quarters, due to
Liquidity 7,089 7,383 -294 major interest rate hikes by most central banks, resulted in a
Financing liabilities -20,839 -16,599 -4,240 significantly more difficult refinancing environment for issuers
Market valuation and with increased risk premiums across all maturities. During the
currency hedges reporting period, the Group covered its refinancing needs by
for financing liabilities -582 -14 -568
issuing bonds and asset-backed securities (“ABS”) transac-
Financing liabilities
tions. In the United States, Canada and Europe, this takes the
(nominal) -21,421 -16,613 -4,808
form of so-called benchmark issues (bonds with a high nomi-
Net debt -14,331 -9,230 -5,101
nal volume) by Daimler Truck Finance North America LLC,
Daimler Truck Finance Canada Inc., and Daimler Truck Interna-
tional Finance B.V respectively.
Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations
Another important source of refinancing in the 2022 financial
As of December 31, 2022, the best estimate of contingent year was bank loans, particularly for the currency areas of the
liabilities amounted to €632 million (2021: € 612 million). In Brazilian reais, Japanese yen, and the Mexican pesos. These
context of its usual business activity, the Group has entered loans were provided by globally active banks as well as by
into other financial obligations of €1,009 million (2020: banks operating nationally. The lenders also included govern-
€592 million), which exceeded the liabilities shown in the Con- ment financing institutions (such as the Brazilian Development
solidated Statement of Financial Position as of December 31, Bank).
2022.
In August 2021, an agreement was concluded with a consor-
At both December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, the tium of international banks to provide a syndicated credit
Daimler Truck Group had issued irrevocable loan commitments facility, of €5.0 billion. The facility has an initial term of five
that had not been not utilized as of those dates. years with two one-year extension options, one of which can
still be utilized. Daimler Truck does not intend to utilize the
In addition, there are other financial obligations arising from credit facility.
the post-divestment liability resulting from the spin-off in 2019
and the spin-off and demerger in 2021. In September 2022, a revolving credit line of €1.0 billion with a
term of 24 months was concluded with an international bank-
Detailed information on contingent liabilities and other finan- ing group. There is an option to increase the credit line further
E
cial obligations can be found in Note 32 of the Notes to by €500 million within the first18 months of the term. This
the Consolidated Financial Statements. credit facility was not utilized as of the reporting date.
The credit facility of €13.0 billion (“bridge facility”), concluded
in August 2021, which was used for the interim financing of
capital market transactions in the course of the acquisition of
companies in the Financial Services segment from the
Mercedes-Benz Group, was fully repaid and terminated as
planned in the reporting year.
B.16 Credit ratings
Benchmark issuances
Credit ratings of Daimler Truck remained unchanged from the
Month of
rating agencies in the 2022 fiscal year. Daimler Truck has thus
Issuer Volume emission Maturity
received a solid investment grade rating from the rating agen-
Daimler Truck International
Finance B.V 500 Mio. € 04.2022 10.2023 cies S&P Global Ratings and Moody’s with a stable outlook.
Daimler Truck International
Finance B.V 625 Mio. € 04.2022 04.2025 The BBB+ / A-2 ratings (long-term and short-term) from S&P
Daimler Truck International Global Ratings reflect the assessment of the agency that
Finance B.V 625 Mio. € 04.2022 04.2027
Daimler Truck has a strong market position in the most profit-
Daimler Truck Finance
able markets of the United States and Europe. In addition, S&P
North America LLC 500 Mio. US$ 04.2022 04.2024
noted positively that Daimler Truck is on track to achieve its
Daimler Truck Finance
North America LLC 650 Mio. US$ 04.2022 04.2025 profitability targets and has improved its cost structure.
Daimler Truck Finance
North America LLC 650 Mio. US$ 04.2022 04.2027 Moody’s A3 rating (long-term, Prim-2 short-term) for Daimler
Daimler Truck Finance Truck reflects the considerable size of the Group as one of the
C anada Inc. 600 Mio. C$ 09.2022 09.2025
world’s largest commercial vehicle manufacturers by revenue,
Daimler Truck Finance
its good diversification with seven individual brands, and its
Ca nada Inc. 200 Mio. C$ 09.2022 09.2027
leading positions in the American and European markets.
Moody’s also pointed to the global recovery of truck markets
and the potential of Daimler Truck to increase its margins
B.17 through efficiency measures, as well as the companies conser-
Refinancing instruments vative financial policy coupled with strong liquidity.
Average interest rates Carrying values
Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31,
B.18
2022 2021 2022 2021
in % In millions of euros Credit ratings
Bonds and liabilities
End of 2022
from ABS transactions 3.32 2.31 12,362 8,058
Liabilities
to financial Long-term credit rating
institutions 7.19 3.00 6,049 6,241 S&P BBB+
Deposits in the direct Moody‹s A3
banking business 12.24 9.27 805 552
Short-term credit rating
S&P A-2
Moody‹s P-2
The carrying amounts of the main refinancing instruments as
well as the weighted average interest rates are shown in table
 B.17. As of December 31, 2022, these are mainly related to
the following currencies: 43% to US dollar,13% to Brazilian
reais,13% to euros, and10% to Canadian dollar.
As of December 31, 2022, the total financing liabilities shown
in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position amounted
to €20.8 billion (2021: €16.6 billion).
Detailed information on the amounts and maturities of the
E
main items of financing liabilities can be found in Note 25
E
to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 26 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements also provides information
on the maturities of other financial liabilities.
Financial position
Compared with December 31, 2021, total assets increased
from €54.8 billion to €64.0 billion. The increase included
€1.0 billion in positive exchange rate effects; adjusted for
these effects, the increase was €8.2 billion. Financial Services
accounted for €25.5 billion of total assets (2021: €17.9 billion),
corresponding to 39.9% of all assets in the Daimler Truck
Group (2021: 32.7%).
Table  B.19 shows the Condensed Statement of Financial
Position of the Daimler Truck Group as well as the Industrial
Business and Financial Services.
B.19
Condensed consolidated statement of financial position
Daimler Truck Group Industrial Business Financial Services
December 31, December 31, December 31,
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
In millions of euros
Assets
Intangible assets 2,779 2,700 2,735 2,688 44 12
Property, plant and equipment 7,993 7,860 7,928 7,784 65 76
Equipment on operating leases 4,433 3,542 3,617 3,294 816 248
Receivables from Financial Services 22,425 16,098 - - 22,425 16,098
Equity-method investments 1,073 1,369 1,073 1,369 - -
Inventories 8,815 7,793 8,782 7,783 33 10
Trade receivables 4,682 3,962 4,260 3,647 422 315
Cash and cash equivalents 5,944 7,244 5,597 6,904 347 340
Marketable debt securities
and similar investments 1,145 139 1,092 99 53 40
thereof current 1,124 105 1,092 99 32 6
thereof non-current 21 34 - - 21 34
Other financial assets 1,505 1,360 702 897 803 463
Other assets 3,175 2,733 2,637 2,409 537 324
Total 63,969 54,800 38,424 36,874 25,545 17,926
Equity and liabilities
Equity 20,606 16,423 18,388 14,858 2,218 1,565
Provisions 6,096 7,161 5,954 7,047 142 114
Financing liabilities 20,839 16,599 -1,422 966 22,262 15,633
thereof current 7,511 5,479 -4,856 -3,185 12,367 8,664
thereof non-current 13,328 11,120 3,433 4,151 9,895 6,969
Trade payables 5,317 4,359 5,267 4,243 50 116
Other financial liabilities 4,826 4,300 4,288 3,887 538 413
Contract and refund liabilities 3,811 3,419 3,811 3,419 - -
Other liabilities 2,474 2,539 2,139 2,453 335 85
Total 63,969 54,800 38,424 36,874 25,545 17,926
At 50.6%, current assets as a proportion of the balance sheet Equity-method investments decreased to €1.1 billion (2021:
total were slightly below the level of the previous year (2021: €1.4 billion). The decline resulted among other effects from the
51.0%). At 32.8%, current liabilities as a proportion of the bal- impairment of the carrying amount and subsequent sale of the
ance sheet total were above the level of the previous year investment in the Russian joint venture Daimler Kamaz Truck
(2021: 31.6%). Table  B.20 shows the balance sheet structure Holding GmbH.
by maturity.
Inventories increased from €7.8 billion to €8.8 billion; the
share of total assets is also higher year-on-year at13.8% (2021:
14.2%). The currency-adjusted increase of €0.8 billion was due
B.20
to the bottlenecks in the supply chains. This led to a delay of
Balance sheet structure Daimler Truck Group
2021
completion in production of a significant number of trucks.
In billions of euros 2022
Furthermore, raw materials and supplies increased due to the
Assets 64 55 55 64 Equity and liabilities expected production volume for the year 2023.
65
32 21
27 16 Equity Trade receivables of €4.7 billion were above the figure for the
Non-current assets previous year (€4.0 billion). The increase was primarily due to
22 the development of unit sales and pricing.
21
Non-current liabilities
32
28 Cash and cash equivalents decreased from €7.2 billion to
Current assets 21 €5.9 billion due to repayments of loans to banks.
17
Current liabilities
thereof liquidity 7 7 The Group’s equity increased compared to December 31, 2021
0 from €16.4 billion to €20.6 billion. Positive effects were due to
the Group’s net profit of €2.8 billion, the effects of currency
Intangible assets of €2.8 billion (2021: €2.7 billion) included translation of €0.1 billion and actuarial gains from defined-
€0.7 billion of goodwill (2021: €0.6 billion), €0.8 billion of benefit pension plans of €1.2 billion. Equity attributable to the
capitalized development costs (2021: €0.7 billion), €1.3 billion shareholders of Daimler Truck Holding AG increased accord-
(2021: €1.4 billion) of concessions, industrial property rights ingly to €20.1 billion (2021: €15.9 billion).
and similar rights (thereof €0.9 billion for the right to use the
brand Mercedes-Benz for an indefinite period of time). The Whereas total assets increased by17%, equity increased by
development costs capitalized in the year under review amount 25% compared with the previous year. Accordingly, the Group’s
to €167 million (2021: €176 million) and correspond to 9.4% equity ratio was above the level of the previous year at 32.2%
(2021:11.2%) of the Group’s total research and development (2021: 30.0%); the equity ratio for the Industrial Business was
expenditure. 47.9% (2021: 40.3%).
Property, plant and equipment (including right-of-use assets) Provisions of €6.1 billion are lower year-on-year
of €8.0 billion were slightly above the previous year (2021: (2021 €7.2 billion); at 9.5%, their share of the balance sheet
€7.9 billion). Investments in property, plant and equipment total is also lower year-on-year (2021:13.1%). Provisions for
increased from €762 million to €898 million. At our production pensions and similar obligations decreased to €1.1 billion
and assembly plants, investments were primarily made in new (2021: €2.5 billion). The decrease in the present value of pen-
technologies (for example zero-emission vehicles and digitali- sion obligations to €5.9 billion (2021: €8.0 billion) was offset by
zation) and in the further development of existing products. In the fair value of plan assets to fund these obligations of
addition, sales and spare-parts centers were expanded. Invest- €5.4 billion (2021: €6.1 billion). In particular, the increased dis-
ments in property, plant and equipment at the sites in Germany count rate led to a reduction in the present value of pension
amounted to €294 million (2021: €280 million). obligations.
Equipment on operating leases and receivables from
f inancial services increased in total to €26.9 billion (2021:
€19.6 billion); adjusted for currency translation, there was an
increase of €6.6 billion. This is mainly due to the Financial Ser-
vices business acquired from the Mercedes-Benz Group, but
also due to new business and exchange rate effects. The share
of total assets accounted for by the leasing and sales financing
business was 42.0% and above the level of the previous year
(2021: 35.8%).
Overall assessment of
Provisions also relate to obligations for product warranties of
€2.0 billion (2021: €1.7 billion), for staff and social matters of the economic situation
€1.6 billion (2021: €1.5 billion) for liability and litigation risks
and official proceedings of €1.0 billion (2021: €1.1 billion), and
other provisions of €0.4 billion (2021: €0.4 billion). The past financial year was also characterized by the effects of
the COVID-19-related lockdowns in China and the associated
Financing liabilities of €20.8 billion were above the level of disruptions in global supply chains. In addition, the environ-
the previous year (2021: €16.6 billion). The currency-adjusted ment was far more challenging due to the Russia-Ukraine war
increase of €3.7 billion is mainly attributable to the refinancing than could be foreseen at the beginning of the year, particularly
of the Financial Services business acquired from the in view of the increase in energy prices and inflation overall.
Mercedes-Benz Group in the reporting period. Refinancing was
achieved through borrowings on the capital markets and bilat- Daimler Truck is meeting these challenges by actively manag-
eral bank loans. ing all functions. For example, by serving regions and products
with the highest contribution margins. Daimler Truck was not
Of the financing liabilities, 54.5% are related to bonds, 29.0% to able to fully meet demand as supply was permanently lower
liabilities to banks, 4.9% to liabilities from ABS transactions, than demand.
3.9% to deposits in the direct banking business, 5.7% to liabili-
ties from leasing relationships and 2.0% to loans to third parties. Overall, the outlook for 2022 in the combined management
report for 2021 was confirmed, and revenue and EBIT were
Compared to December 31, 2021, trade payables increased even exceeded. The outlook in the interim reports for the 2022
by €1.0 billion to €5.3 billion. One the one hand, the increase full year were raised accordingly for revenue and EBIT. At the
was attributable to a higher order and production volume and same time, Daimler Truck continues to work on improving
on the other hand to higher prices from suppliers. profitability and the transformation to CO -neutral transport.
2
Further information on the recognized assets, equity and liabil-
ities of the Group can be found in the consolidated statement
of financial position  D.03., the consolidated statement of
changes in equity  D.05 and the relevant notes to the consol-
idated financial statements.
Daimler Truck Holding AG
(condensed version in accordance with the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch or “HGB”))
In addition to the reporting on the Daimler Truck Group, the The annual financial statements of Daimler Truck Holding AG
development of Daimler Truck Holding AG is explained here. are prepared in accordance with accounting regulations under
commercial law and the supplementary provisions under stock
Daimler Truck Holding AG is the parent company of the Daimler corporation law. Unless otherwise stated, the annual financial
Truck Group and has its headquarters in Stuttgart (Germany). statements are presented in millions of euros (€) and com-
pared with the values as of December 31, 2021.
Due to its position as the listed parent company of the Daimler
Truck Group, Daimler Truck Holding AG is responsible for a The statement of income is prepared in accordance with the
wide range of tasks, particularly in the external presentation of cost of sales method mostly used internationally. The compar-
the Daimler Truck Group. These tasks include, in particular, ative period for the statement of income is the short financial
external financial reporting and the fulfillment of other statu- year of the prior year.
tory disclosure requirements and tax requirements placed on
the tax group. The Group-wide, central functions are based at
Profitability
the level of Daimler Truck AG – which provides services to
Daimler Truck Holding AG. Daimler Truck Holding AG is struc-
tured as a management company with the Board of Manage- The profitability of Daimler Truck Holding AG in the financial
ment and which provides management services in the Group. year was significantly influenced by the profit transfer resulting
The Company has no employees of its own below the level of from the control and profit and loss transfer agreement with
the Board of Management – apart from a few employees with Daimler Truck AG, which totaled €1,393 million (2021:
dual employment contracts. The financing of the Daimler Truck €1,218 million).
Group is secured centrally by Daimler Truck AG and the other
companies of the Group, where appropriate, in conjunction General administrative expenses amounted to €55 million
with guarantees provided by Daimler Truck Holding AG. (2021: €14 million). This mainly included personnel expenses of
€23 million (2021: €3 million), other non-production-related
The annual financial statements of Daimler Truck Holding AG external services amounting to €13 million (2021: €1 million)
are compiled in accordance with the German Commercial and other indemnity insurance of €8 million (2021: €0 million).
Code (“HGB”). For Daimler Truck Holding AG as a management The increase over the prior year was mainly due to the short
company, net profit represents the most significant perfor- financial year and the resulting reduction in business opera-
mance indicator. Net profit is considered to be at the prior tions and holding activities of the prior year.
year’s level if it is within a range of minus 5.0% to +5.0%. If
there is a change in a range between minus 5.0% and Other operating income amounted to €23 million (2021:
minus 15.0% or between +5.0% and +15.0%, we refer to a slight €1 million). This mainly contained the charging for provision of
decrease or a slight increase compared with the prior year. If management services for Daimler Truck AG of €17 million.
the change is more than +15.0% or less than minus15.0% com- Compared to prior year, the increase resulted mainly due to
pared with the prior year, we classify this as a significant the short financial year and the corresponding reduced holding
increase or a significant decrease. activates of the prior year.
The Consolidated Financial Statements follow the International Net profit amounted to €1,362 million (2021: €1,206 million)
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as applicable in the Euro- and was therefore above our expectations (as stated in the
pean Union (“EU”). This results in some accounting differences prior year’s outlook report) of a significant reduction in net
with regard to recognition and measurement. These primarily profit. For the 2022 financial year, the Company reported a dis-
relate to management remuneration and the measurement of tributable profit of €1,362 million (2021: €1,206 million). It will
equity interests, receivables and liabilities, measurement of pro- be proposed to the Annual General Meeting to distribute
visions, financial instruments and deferred taxes. €1,070 million (€1.30 per no-par-value registered share enti-
tled to dividend) from the distributable profit of Daimler Truck
Holding AG for the 2022 financial year to the shareholders and
to carry forward the distributable profit remaining after the dis-
tribution of €292 million to new accounts.
The economic position of Daimler Truck Holding AG in its The cash flows from investing activities in the 2022 finan-
function as a management company primarily depends on the cial year came to €1,218 million (2021: €0 million) and resulted
development of its subsidiaries. Daimler Truck Holding AG par- primarily from the profit transfer of Daimler Truck AG.
ticipates in the operating results of the subsidiaries through
the profit transfer of Daimler Truck AG. This means that the The cash flows from financing activities of minus €1,198 mil-
economic situation of Daimler Truck Holding AG corresponds lion (2021: €14 million) resulted from the change in receivables
to that of the Group as a whole, which is illustrated in chapter and liabilities of intragroup clearing transactions within the
E
Profitability, Liquidity and Capital Resources, and Financial scope of central financial and liquidity management.
Position of the combined management report.
The equity of Daimler Truck Holding AG rose by €1,362 million
to €17,668 million in the reporting year. Equity increased
B.21 mainly due to the distributable profit of the 2021 financial year
Condensed Statement of Income of Daimler Truck Holding AG of €1,206 million, which was fully allocated to other retained
earnings.
March 25, 2021
– December 31,
2022 2021 The share capital amounted to €822,951,882 and is divided
In millions of euros into 822,951,882 no-par-value registered shares.
Revenue 0 1 The capital reserve as of December 31, 2022 was
Cost of sales 0 - €14,277 million (2021: €14,277 million). Of this, €14,277 mil-
General administrative expenses -55 -14 lion from the spin-off and contribution transactions of the prior
Other operating income 23 1 year was allocated to the capital reserve in accordance with
Operating loss -32 -12 § 272 Subsection 2 No. 1 of the German Commercial Code
Profits received due to a profit transfer (“HGB”).
agreement 1,393 1,218
Interest income/expense, net 1 0 Provisions rose by €5 million to €15 million and resulted pri-
Net profit 1,362 1,206 marily from personnel provisions, other legal obligations and the
Distributable profit 1,362 1,206 obligation to prepare and audit the annual financial statements.
Liabilities rose by €127 million to €182 million and mainly
Liquidity and Capital Resources and
included liabilities from the fiscal entity for VAT purposes
Financial Position (€164 million).
At €17,865 million, total assets were €1,494 million above the B.22
prior year’s level. Balance sheet structure of Daimler Truck Holding AG
December 31, December 31,
Non-current assets remained unchanged from the prior year
2022 2021
at €15,100 million and consisted exclusively of the100% equity
In millions of euros
interest in Daimler Truck AG shown under financial assets.
Assets
Receivables and other assets rose by €1,494 million year on
Financial assets 15,100 15,100
year to €2,765 million and mainly included receivables from
Non-current assets 15,100 15,100
affiliated companies of €2,603 million. In the amount of
Receivables and other assets 2,765 1,271
€1,393 million, these largely resulted from the control and
Cash and cash equivalents 0 0
profit and loss transfer agreement with Daimler Truck AG and
Current assets 2,765 1,271
in the amount of €1,184 million from receivables from intra-
17,865 16,371
group clearing transactions within the scope of central finan-
cial and liquidity management.
Equity and liabilities
Share capital 823 823
At €0 million, cash and cash equivalents remained
Capital reserve 14,277 14,277
unchanged compared with the prior year. Due to the cash man-
Retained earnings 1,206 0
agement structure, the operating bank account of Daimler
Net profit 1,362 1,206
Truck Holding AG is balanced daily.
Equity 17,668 16,306
Other provisions 15 10
Cash flows from operating activities amounted to minus
Provisions 15 10
€20 million in the 2022 financial year (2021: minus €14 million).
Liabilities to subsidiaries 164 49
Compared to previous year, the reduction in operating profit
Other liabilities 18 6
had a negative impact on cash flows from operating activities.
Liabilities 182 55
17,865 16,371
Risks and Opportunities
The provisions in this context, in particular the procedure for
regulating internal compensation between the participating
The business development of Daimler Truck Holding AG as a legal entities, can be found in the Group separation agreement,
management company depends primarily on the development which is an annex to the spin-off and hive-down agreement of
of its direct and indirect subsidiaries worldwide and is there- August 6, 2021. The spin-off and hive-down became effective
fore subject to substantially the same risks and opportunities on December 9, 2021 by entry in the commercial register.
as those of the Daimler Truck Group through the earnings.
Daimler Truck Holding AG generally participates in the risks of The potential obligations from subsequent liability pursuant to
the associated companies and subsidiaries of the Daimler Section133 of the German Transformation Act (“UmwG”)
Truck Group in proportion to its respective ownership interest. between Mercedes-Benz Group AG and Daimler Truck Holding
The risks and opportunities are presented in the chapter AG amounted to €21,485 million for Daimler Truck Holding AG
E
Risk and Opportunity Report of the combined manage- (thereof due in 2022: €5,301 million).
ment report. In addition, relationships with our subsidiaries
and associated companies may result in charges arising from On the basis of the current assessment, an actual outflow of
legal or contractual contingent liabilities (in particular financ- liquidity from Daimler Truck Holding AG is considered unlikely.
ing) as well as impairments of the shares in Daimler Truck AG.
E
Based on the criteria set out in section Risk and Opportu-
Outlook
nity Report of the combined management report, the extent
and probability of occurrence of the opportunities are consid-
ered to have increased significantly compared with the previ- The profitability, liquidity and capital resources, and financial
ous year, and the risks are considered to have increased position of Daimler Truck Holding AG are determined by the
slightly. business development and success of its direct and indirect
operating subsidiaries, in whose development it participates
directly and indirectly through profit and loss transfer agree-
Subsequent Liability
ments and dividend distributions.
Pursuant to Section133 Subsections1 and 3 of the German For 2023, we expect the net profit of Daimler Truck Holding AG
Transformation Act (Umwandlungsgesetz or “UmwG”), to be significantly above the level of the 2022 financial year. In
Daimler Truck Holding AG is jointly and severally liable with particular, we anticipate a significantly higher profit transfer
Mercedes-Benz Group AG for the fulfillment of liabilities from Daimler Truck AG.
remaining with Mercedes-Benz Group AG, which were incurred
prior to the spin-off and hive-down on December 9, 2021 tak- Furthermore, due to the interconnectedness of Daimler Truck
ing effect, if they fall due within five years of the announce- Holding AG with the Group companies, we refer to our state-
E
ment of the registration of the spin-off and hive-down in the ments in the chapter Outlook of the combined manage-
commercial register of Mercedes-Benz Group AG and claims ment report, which in particular also reflect the expectations
against Daimler Truck Holding AG are determined as a result for the parent company.
thereof by a court or in another manner described in Section
133 of the German Transformation Act (“UmwG“), or a judicial
or official enforcement action is taken or applied for.
The aforementioned period is ten years for pension obligations
based on the German Company Pensions Act (“Betriebsren-
tengesetz”) established prior to the effective date of the spin-
off and hive-down. Daimler Truck Holding AG does not expect
any outflow of liquidity in this respect due to the sufficiently
available special-purpose assets of the other legal entities.
Sustainability
at
Daimler Truck
Sustainability at Daimler Truck
Sustainability at Daimler Truck
Our focus areas
GOVERNANCE
Responsible corporate governance 64
Compliance 67
Commitment 75
ENVIRONMENT
Green products 81
Green supply chain 90
Green production 92
EU taxonomy 99
SOCIAL
Traffic safety 109
Human rights 113
Our people 117
FURTHER INFORMATION
127
▾▴
This content is part of the non-financial statement of the Group and subject to a separate audit with limited assurance.
GOVERNANCE
We highlight our responsibilities towards the environment
and society with strong, forward-looking
corporate governance.
Sustainability at Daimler Truck
Responsible corporate governance
Sustainability is also anchored in the remuneration system.
GRI 2-12/-13/-14/-18/-19 SDG 8, 16 Thus, there is a non-financial target component for the Board
of Management, as well as for senior managers. Corporate
success is also influenced by goals that focus on sustainability,
As a globally leading manufacturer of commercial vehicles, our in addition to business and technology goals. Further informa-
w
goal is to develop and bring sustainable and thus future-proof tion on the remuneration of the The Supervisory Board and
w
transport solutions for the transport of goods and people to the The Board of Management can be found on our web-
the road. We take the associated responsibility for our employ- site.
ees, the environment and society very seriously. We view
sustainability holistically and as an integral part of our core Environment
business. Furthermore, the United Nations’17 Sustainable As an organization with responsible corporate governance, we
Development Goals (“SDGs”) serve us as a guide to refine in are dedicated to protecting the environment and the climate.
detail our own commitment to sustainable development and We are committed to the goals of the Paris Agreement and are
respect for human rights with their help. paving the way towards CO -neutral transportation. From
2
2039, we plan to sell only vehicles that are CO -neutral in driv-
2
The framework we have chosen for our responsible activities is ing mode in North America, Europe and Japan. The first
called “ESG” (Environment, Social, Governance - sustainability series-production vehicles are already in operation.
in the language of the financial markets). Therefore, we focus
on the three topics of responsible corporate governance, envi- The supply chain also forms part of our sustainability efforts.
ronment and social. We expect our suppliers to act in accordance with the legal
requirements for environmental protection. We also require
Governance our direct suppliers to comply with our Company’s sustainabil-
Our aim is to be a company with which business partners like ity standards.
doing business and where employees like to work – in brief: A
company to trust. Our actions are based on responsibility: For the CO -neutral transportation of goods and people, we
2
We adhere to the corporate governance rules and integrate sus- also aim to make our global production CO -neutral by 2039.
2
tainability into our short and long-term decisions. We encour- We reached a milestone during the reporting year: Our Euro-
age open dialog with our stakeholders and support environmen- pean production plants are CO₂-neutral on balance. Our pro-
tal and social initiatives. We manage compliance and ESG risks duction sites in India, Japan and the US are also expected to
with proven systems – backed up by our internal audits. We be CO 2-neutral by 2025. ▴
also ensure transparent sustainability reporting to the capital
market. On this basis, we set our goals and manage their
achievement with the corresponding key figures.
B.23
Overview Governance
Ambition Achievements
Governance – S ustainable business strategy and Governance setup.
– F irst Daimler Truck materiality analysis conducted.
We follow good corporate governance and – S ustainability reporting integrated into Annual Report.
integrate sustainability into our business
targets and our management compensa-
tion.
Compliance – A daption of the Compliance Management System (“CMS”) to the
requirements of Daimler Truck after the spin-off.
We prevent and manage compliance and ESG- – R oll out of various compliance trainings.
risks with standardized systems. – Monitoring process and annual adequacy and effectiveness checks of
the CMS were carried out.
– U pdate of the standards for business partners to the requirements after
the spin-off.
Engagement – Support for the U krainian population through donations in kind and money.
– Continuation of the ProCent initiative from Daimler Truck and thus support
of many projects.
– Official participant at the UN Global Compact since April 2022.
Social issues and the impact on our environment and the people
There are three areas at the heart of our social responsibility: around us. These two perspectives were explored through the
Our employees, fair working conditions and respecting and involvement of various stakeholders. On the one hand, we
supporting human rights throughout our value chain, as well as examined the positive and negative impact of our business
road user safety. We employ more than100,000 people world- activities with a comprehensive competitive analysis, an SDG
wide. They are our most important asset and we take a variety impact assessment and expert interviews. On the other hand,
of measures to ensure that they feel comfortable in the work- we looked at the impact of sustainability issues on our busi-
place, develop their potential and maintain their health. ness performance and results through an online survey of both
our employees and our truck fleet customers and analyzed the
We also take social responsibility for our supply chain. Our relevant ESG rating requirements.
suppliers around the world are committed to adhering to our
social and environmental standards, paying their employees The results of the analysis including recommendations for
fairly, ensuring safe working conditions, respecting human action were presented to the Sustainability Steering Commit-
rights and combating child and forced labor. tee (“SSC”) and the Corporate Sustainability Board (“CSB”).
Safety is part of our DNA and one of our most important obli- The results of the materiality analysis confirms the focal topics
gations — not just toward our customers, but toward all road for our sustainable business strategy. Eight areas of action
users. We aim to prevent accidents in road traffic. That is why were identified as essential. From an external and internal per-
we are continuously enhancing our safety and assistance sys- spective, the focal point here is on the ecological aspects of
tems and advancing autonomous driving. We develop our prod- our business – above all, on combating climate change,
ucts in accordance with the highest safety standards, which resource efficiency and preventing pollution. Together with the
we regularly verify through internal quality controls and exter- social requirements of respect and support for human rights
nal certifications. as well as occupational health and safety, which were highly
rated by our employees in particular, these constitute the most
Materiality analysis relevant topics for us, which we want to orient our sustainabil-
GRI 3-1/-2 SDG 16 ity management and reporting towards more strongly in the
As the basis of our sustainability reporting, but also to orien- future. The topics of green supply chain, compliance and traf-
tate our sustainable business strategy, we conducted a materi- fic safety will also be the focal points of our ESG and Group
ality analysis for the Daimler Truck Group in summer 2022. management.
Based on the Daimler Truck corporate strategy, regulatory
developments and current industry trends, we identified the
key topics for Daimler Truck and prioritized them. For a holistic
view, we analyzed both the business relevance of sustainability
B.24
Materiality Analysis
Inside out (people and environment)
Peer analysis SDG* exposure Expert interviews Material topics
1. Climate change mitigation &
adaptation to climate change
Where is the biggest impact Where are the greatest What do experts from science /
2. Human rights
of the industry according to positive and negative effects NGOs say about the effects of
3. Resource efficiency
competitors’ assessments? for the Daimler Truck Group? the industry and the Group?
4. Health & Safety
5. Pollution prevention
6. Green supply chain
7. Compliance
Outside in (business relevance)
8. Traffic safety
Fleet customer survey Employee surveys ESG Ratings Further topics
9. Diversity, equity & inclusion
10. Talent empowerment
Which topics are decisive for Which topics are of Which sustainability issues 11. Good corporate governance
the purchase decision of the particular importance have an influence on the 12. Biodiversity
most important customers? to the employees? refinancing of the Company? 13. Partnerships & engagement
* SDG: Sustainable Development Goals
Governance Further relevant information can be found in the
E
GRI 2-13 Declaration on Corporate Governance.
In the reporting year, Daimler Truck prioritized sustainability as
the top management task and created clear responsibility Principles and policies
structures for the topic of sustainability in the Group. The GRI 2-23
Board of Management meets on a regular basis as the Corpo- We have anchored our values and principles in our Declaration
rate Sustainability Board (“CSB”) to discuss sustainability of Principles on Social Responsibility and Human Rights, as
issues of importance to the company. Within the Board of Man- well as in our overarching Daimler Truck Code of Conduct and
agement, Chairman Martin Daum is responsible for the topic of in other topic-specific policies.
sustainability in accordance with the allocation plan. The
Supervisory Board advises and supervises the Board of Man- By policies we mean the overarching in-house regulations of
agement, in particular with regard to sustainability issues. At the Daimler Truck Group that provide the Group’s framework
the same time, some members of the Audit Committee have and which are directly binding for all employees and members
expertise in the area of sustainability reporting and its auditing. of executive bodies defined in the scope of application.
The management and organizational structures established in
the 2021 reporting year are intended to strategically support Specifications on responsibilities, process, quality, translation,
our sustainability goals. For this purpose, the Sustainability approval, implementation and discontinuation, communication
Steering Committee (“SSC”) was created across the board, as and documentation of policies are laid down in the Policy
well as working groups for the focus topics E, S and G. M anagement Manual.
Within the Legal and Compliance department, a team for sus- The House of Policies (“HoP”) is the official platform for the
tainability management deals with the relevant management entire Daimler Truck Group to create a transparent, effective
issues. In addition to sustainability reporting, it is also respon- and legally compliant policy landscape throughout the Group.
sible for the further development of the sustainable business All employees have access to the HoP and corresponding
strategy, human rights compliance and stakeholder manage- training courses are also offered.
ment. This function reports to the Chairman of the Board of
Management via the Company’s Chief Legal and Compliance
Officer.
B.25
Governance Structure
The central management and decision-making body
Board of Management Corporate for all sustainability topics (Corporate Sustainability
(BoM) = Sustainability Board Board – “CSB”) is part of the Board levels of Daimler
(CSB) Truck Holding AG and Daimler Truck AG. Under the
leadership of the Chairman of the Board of Manage-
ment, the Corporate Sustainability Board meets at
least twice a year.
Sustainability Steering
Committee (SSC)
The Sustainability Steering Committee (“SSC”) is
composed of senior management level representa-
tives of the segments and representatives of various
functional units. The SSC, under the direction of
the Chief Legal & Compliance Officer, advises – as
required – on the course of action at least once a
quarter and assesses the sustainability performance
reported by the working groups.
The processing of the focus topics from the sustain-
able business strategy is organized and structured by
the respective responsible departments in working
groups. Progress made and any important decisions
are reported to the SSC and the CSB or submitted to
them for a decision.
Segments and cross functions
(Legal & Compliance, Research & Development, Production, Purchasing,
Group Strategy, Human Resources, Finance & Accounting, Sales,
Investor Relations as well as External Affairs and Corporate Communications)
Compliance
European regulations and takes into account established
GRI 2-27, 3-3, 205-1/-2/-3, 206-1, 207 SDG 16 legal practice at European antitrust authorities, as well as the
rulings of European courts.
We are convinced: Only those who act ethically and legally Additional guidelines and practical toolkits are also intended to
responsible will remain successful in the long term. Compli- support our employees worldwide in recognizing situations
ance with rules and a corresponding compliance culture that are critical under antitrust law and acting in accordance
therefore assume a high priority at Daimler Truck. with the regulations. This is particularly important when
employees deal with competitors, cooperate with dealers and
Compliance and responsible corporate governance are in line general distributors, and participate in trade association work.
with our understanding of sustainable business. Daimler Truck
has therefore implemented an established Compliance Man- Ensuring compliance with technical and regulatory
agement System (“CMS”), which comprises programs and pro- requirements
cesses to comply with legal requirements and to prevent mis- Product compliance for Daimler Truck means compliance with
conduct. Daimler Truck informs and raises the awareness of its technical and regulatory requirements, standards and laws
employees on compliance issues through numerous training that are relevant to business activities around the world.
measures and communication campaigns.
Our objective is to identify risks within the product creation
Compliance management focus areas process - i.e., in product development and certification – as
well as in product reliability process at an early stage, includ-
Value-based compliance is an indispensable part of our daily ing the implementation of preventative measures. In doing so,
business activities and means that we aim to comply with laws we take into account the fundamental spirit of laws and regula-
and internal regulations. Our intention is to encourage compli- tions as well as internal specifications and processes in devel-
ant conduct throughout the entire company around the world opment and production as well as after the vehicles have been
by taking specific measures. In the following, we explain how placed on the market.
we are pursuing our main objectives, what are the regulations
and policies providing us with orientation in this regard, and The Product Compliance Management System (“PCMS”)
which specific measures we are implementing. defines principles, structures and processes in order to pro-
vide our employees with certainty and guidance, especially in
The main objectives of our Group-wide compliance activities terms of challenging questions on how to interpret technical
are: regulations. Furthermore, the PCMS also includes minimum
standards for handling our products in the field regarding
– Combating corruption safety, regulatory conformity and emissions issues.
– Preserving maintaining and promoting fair competition
– Ensuring compliance with technical and regulatory Respecting and supporting human rights
requirements We are strongly committed to respect and support human
– Respecting and supporting human rights rights and we also expect this from our business partners
– Adherence to data protection laws throughout the value chain. With our Human Rights Compli-
– Preventing money laundering and terrorist financing ance Management System (“Human Rights CMS”), we pursue a
– Complying with sanctions and export regulations systematic approach to fulfilling our human rights due dili-
gence obligations. The Human Rights CMS is based on interna-
Combating corruption tionally recognized standards, such as the United Nations
The objective of our compliance measures is to minimize cor- Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (“UNGPs”),
ruption in all business activities. We therefore critically examine which are the basis for regulatory and legislative business and
our business partners and transactions and deal with authori- human rights efforts worldwide.
ties and public officials in a particularly sensitive manner.
As part of the CMS, we systematically review on a risk basis
An important component of our anti-corruption compliance whether human rights are respected in our controlled Group
management system is Transparency International’s Corrup- companies and in our supply chain, and have defined various
tion Perception Index. We see increased corruption risks in the measures, both to prevent and minimize potential adverse
area of sales activities in high-risk countries as well as in our impacts on human rights through our companies and our busi-
business relations with authorized dealers and general distrib- ness activities, and to remedy them. Further information can
E
utors worldwide. be found in the chapter Human rights.
Maintaining and promoting fair competition
Our Group-wide Antitrust Compliance Program is oriented to
national and international standards to ensure fair competition.
It comprises a binding, globally valid Daimler Truck Group stan-
dard that defines how matters of antitrust law are to be
assessed and how the work with industry associations has to
be carried out. It is based on the standards of the underlying
Adhering to data protection laws Preventing money laundering and financing of terrorism
At Daimler Truck, data and the systematic evaluation of data The purpose of compliance in the prevention of money launder-
are the basis for new business models, innovative technologies ing and terrorist financing is both to prevent the placement of
and efficient processes. However, data not only opens up busi- funds from criminal transactions into the legal economic cycle
ness opportunities, but its handling requires special care as and the financing of terrorist associations via transactions with
comprehensive data protection requirements apply both in Daimler Truck. Therefore, we have implemented global mini-
Europe and globally. mum standards, processes and safeguards throughout the
Group to comply with all applicable anti-money laundering
In the year under review, we at Daimler Truck adopted a com- laws.
mitment to data responsibility which defines a clear framework
on how we handle data based on the three guiding principles Daimler Truck has appointed a Group Anti-Money Laundering
of “added value for the customer”, “business potential” and Officer. He ensures compliance across divisions at Daimler
“responsible use of data”. Truck Holding AG and all of its Group companies and is respon-
sible for Group-wide standards and processes pursuant to the
The Chief Data Privacy Officer performs the tasks defined by German Anti-Money Laundering Act.
law to comply with data protection regulations.
The Anti-Money Laundering Officer is assisted by two deputy
Daimler Truck’s “Global Data and Information Policy” lays the Anti-Money Laundering Officers. One deputy is responsible for
foundation for responsible and legally compliant handling of ensuring compliance measures for the prevention of money
information and data worldwide. It defines a binding minimum laundering and terrorist financing for the Industrial Business,
standard for all Group units. Besides that, the requirements of while the other deputy is responsible for the segment Financial
the EU General Data Protection Regulation and the applicable Services.
local data protection laws are to be considered.
Complying with sanctions and export regulations
At the same time, our Data Compliance Management System A central Group unit for export control, sanctions, anti-money-
supports the Group in systematically planning, implementing, laundering and dangerous goods pursues a combined compli-
and continuously monitoring measures to ensure compliance ance approach with the aim to ensure all applicable personal
with the data protection requirements. sanctions (sanctions compliance) and goods-related sanctions
(export control compliance) in the best way possible through-
Daimler Truck has established a central reporting procedure out the Group.
for all information security incidents: The Information Security
Incident Management Process. Employees and contractors are As a minimum standard of Daimler Truck, regardless of its
instructed to report all potential personal data breaches and applicability, the sanctions lists of the EU, the United Kingdom
information security violations via this process. During the year and the US (including the US Office of Foreign Assets Control
under review, a small number of cases were reported to the (“OFAC”); US Bureau of Industry and Security (“BIS”)) are
responsible data protection authorities. This did not result in checked through an IT-system in every business transaction.
any official measures against the company. Group-wide export control ensures, both through its worldwide
internal policy and through its IT-supported export control
The contact details of the Chief Data Privacy Officer are pub- management system, that applicable national and suprana-
licly available. Customers with data protection concerns can tional export control prohibitions and licensing requirements
always contact the Chief Data Privacy Officer. In the year under are observed for all exports or shipments of export control-
review, Daimler Truck did not have any cases in which data relevant goods initiated by Daimler Truck or controlled majority
protection supervisory authorities took action following a cus- companies.
tomer complaint.
Compliance Management System Compliance organization
Through our Compliance Management System (“CMS”), we at The compliance organization of the Daimler Truck Group is
Daimler Truck aim to promote compliance with regulations and organized regionally and along the functions. In this way, it can
policies at our company and to prevent misconduct. The mea- provide effective support – for example, through guidelines
sures needed for this are defined by our compliance and legal and recommendations. Functional or regional contacts are
organizations in a process that also takes the Company’s busi- available for this purpose. Therefore, a global network of local
ness requirements into account in an appropriate manner. The contacts ensures that our compliance standards are upheld.
CMS consists of basic principles and measures that ensure The network supports the management of the Group compa-
compliant behavior throughout the Company. It is based on nies in implementing our compliance program locally. In addi-
national and international standards and is applied on a global tion, the Compliance Board manages overarching issues and
scale at Daimler Truck. The CMS consists of seven elements monitors whether our measures are effective. The Board has
that build on one another. the task of responding at an early stage to changes in business
models and in the business environment, picking-up on regula-
tory developments and continuously developing the CMS. The
B.26 Compliance Board is composed of representatives of the Com-
The Daimler Truck Compliance Management System pliance and Legal departments, meets regularly and is chaired
by the Chief Legal and Compliance Officer. He reports directly
to the Chairman of the Board of Management of Daimler Truck
Holding AG and reports regularly to the Board of Management
1. Values
of Daimler Truck Holding AG and Daimler Truck AG, to the
Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board and to the Group
7. Monitoring Risk Management Committee. From the Company’s perspec-
2. Objectives
& Improvement tive, the compliance network’s independence from the seg-
ments is assured by the direct reporting line to Legal and Com-
6. Communication pliance department and to the Chairman of the Board of
3. Organization
& Training
Management.
5. Program 4. Risks Compliance risks
Daimler Truck systematically reviews and evaluates all con-
trolled Group companies and majority shareholdings globally
and its own central units on a regular basis in order to mini-
Corporate culture and compliance values mize compliance risks. In doing so, centrally available data is
accessed and, if necessary, local information. The results of
We aim to ensure that all employees are aware of and comply the regular compliance risk evaluation form the basis of our
with the applicable Code of Conduct and act responsibly, with risk controlling. We use these to implement targeted risk-mini-
integrity and in compliance with the rules. Our Group-wide mizing measures worldwide. This risk management approach
Code of Conduct serves as a general benchmark for us: It sets serves as a framework for all compliance fields. The risk analy-
out the guidelines for our actions and helps us to make the sis for Daimler Truck, which is valid for financial year 2022,
right decisions. The policy is binding for all employees of the was carried out before the spin-off from the former Daimler AG
controlled Group companies of Daimler Truck Holding AG, is at the end of 2021 and forms the basis of our compliance risk
available in ten languages and centrally. In 2022, the Code of management. The compliance risk management processes
Conduct was revised with the help of employees and aligned were adopted by Daimler Truck after the spin-off and adapted
with the “Purpose Principles” of Daimler Truck. It was pub- to its requirements in the reporting year.
lished at the beginning of February 2023.
Compliance objectives
The objectives of the compliance program are defined and
under the responsibility of the Chief Legal and Compliance
Officer and the Compliance Board on the basis of the compli-
ance strategy. The compliance strategy is derived from the
corporate objectives as well as from the applicable laws, regu-
lations, voluntary commitments and the “Purpose Principles”
of Daimler Truck.
For the individual compliance areas, this means minimizing
corruption risks, antitrust risks, export control risks, risks from
money laundering and violations of sanctions and terror lists,
data protection, product conformity and human rights as well
as specific environmental risks.
Compliance program A globally valid corporate policy defines BPO procedures and
the corresponding responsibilities. Its aim is to ensure a fair
Daimler Truck’s compliance program comprises elements and transparent procedure that takes both the principle of pro-
such as the Business Practices Office, business partner due portionality for the person concerned and the protection of
diligence processes, compliance contractual clauses and other the whistleblower into account. The policy also serves as the
measures tailored to the respective compliance field in order standard by which we at Daimler Truck judge breaches of
to minimize risks and counteract violations of laws and rules. regulations and decide on consequences.
The individual measures are derived from the findings of our
systematic compliance risk analysis. In this respect, we focus If, after an initial risk-based assessment, a notification is
on, among other things: Continuous enhancement of aware- classified as a violation of the rules with a low risk for the
ness of compliance and adherence to relevant processes, con- Company, the BPO transfers the case to the responsible
sistent follow-up of reports of misconduct, and the formulation department, for example Human Resources, Corporate Secu-
of clear requirements for the conduct of our business partners. rity, or Corporate Data Protection. The relevant department
follows up on the notification and clarifies the case under its
Reporting of rule violations via own responsibility. Rule violations with a low risk for the Com-
the BPO whistleblower system pany include, for example, theft, embezzlement or personal
GRI 2-27 enrichment with a value of less than €100,000 – provided that
The whistleblower system Business Practices Office (“BPO”) they do not fall into the category of corruption.
enables employees of Daimler Truck as well as business part-
ners and third parties around the world to report violations of If the BPO classifies a notification as a high-risk breach of reg-
regulations. Information can be submitted by email, post or by ulations, after a risk-based initial assessment, it then refers
using a reporting form. In addition, external toll-free hotlines the case to an investigative unit. The BPO provides support for
are available in Brazil, Japan, South Africa and the US. Reports the subsequent investigation until the case is closed. Examples
can also be submitted anonymously if local laws permit this. In of high-risk rule violations include offenses related to corrup-
Germany, a neutral external intermediary is available for whis- tion, breaches of antitrust law, and violations of anti-money
tleblowers as an additional contact point. Reports to the BPO laundering regulations, as well as violations of binding techni-
whistleblower system alert us to potential risks for the Group cal provisions or violations in connection with environmental
and its employees. This can prevent damage. regulations. Cases of sexual harassment, human rights viola-
tions, discrimination and racism are also among the high-risk
rule violations. In order to constantly increase trust in our BPO
whistleblower system and make it even better known to our
employees, we are reporting and raising awareness about the
BPO through a variety of communication measures.
B.27
Daimler Truck BPO process
Receipt of report Case is taken on Investigation Case closed
BPO
High risk: Legal review Investigation by
BPO process investigation unit
Case closed
Initial
risk-based
assessment
Whistleblower Inbox &
pre-sorting
Confirmation letter
Whistleblower obtains Minor risk: Forwarded to Legal review, investigation and
confirmation of receipt responsible unit closure of case by responsible unit
In the 2022 reporting year, 19 high risk cases were newly Sales partners and suppliers acting with integrity
created via the BPO whistleblower system. Among the newly In this regard, beyond the Group companies, we also formulate
opened cases, two fell into the category of “corruption (pas- clear requirements for our business partners, because conduct
sive)”, two in the category of “severe cases of sexual harass- with integrity and in compliance with rules is a prerequisite for
ment” and two in the category of “severe injuries to physical trusting cooperation. When selecting our direct business part-
and psychological integrity”. A further eight cases fell in the ners, we therefore pay close attention to ensure that they com-
category of “theft (over €100,000)”, four in the category of ply with the law and that they pay the same attention in the
“damage to reputation” and one in the category of “other high supply chain. Our expectations of them have been set out in
risks”. detail in the Business Partner Standards, which were revised
during the reporting year and which we hand out to our busi-
In the 2022 reporting year, a total of15 cases classified as ness partners. In the Business Partner Standards, we also
“applicable/closed (partially) with merit” were closed. In these summarize all the requirements we place on our suppliers for
15 cases, a specific initial suspicion had been confirmed. Three sustainable action and formulate our expectations with regard
of these cases were in the category of “theft (over €100,000),” to working conditions, respect and support human rights, the
nine in the category of “damages (over €100,000),” and three environment and safety, and compliance. Further require-
in the category of “severe cases of sexual harassment.” The ments can be found in our “Daimler Truck Special Terms”
company decides here on appropriate measures in terms of (order conditions) and the compliance contractual clauses. We
proportionality and fairness. In the year under review, person- also provide our business partners with a specifically devel-
nel measures included summary dismissals, disciplinary warn- oped Compliance Awareness Module. The module raises
ings and warnings with a reduction in variable remuneration, awareness of current requirements and offers our suppliers
suspensions and voluntary termination. and sales partners assistance in dealing with potential compli-
ance risks. In accordance with the United Nations Guiding Prin-
Further information and contact details can be found on our ciples on Business and Human Rights, we are working to
w
Website. ensure that business partners, especially direct suppliers, also
respect human rights. Besides this, we are committed to
ensuring that this is also the case with indirect suppliers and
are taking appropriate measures.
We review direct business partners as part of risk-based due
diligence processes. In the year under review, we audited all
new sales partners. In addition, we use a permanent monitor-
ing process to review all current sales partners with the aim of
identifying possible conduct violations by sales partners. In
the year under review, we also further developed our globally
standardized and risk-based procedures for selecting and
cooperating with suppliers, particularly in light of the German
Supply Chain Due Diligence Act. Further information can be
w
found on the Website for our suppliers and in the chapters
E E
Green supply chain and Human rights.
Internal information, communication and B.29
training measures Compliance training program - web-based training courses
GRI 205-2
Daimler Truck offers a comprehensive range of training
courses on compliance topics. Training needs are determined Basic Modules1 ▾Number of participants4
on a regular basis and adjustments as well as enhancements Antitrust Overview 40,962
were carried out. The contents and topics of the training Management Module2
courses are tailored to the roles and functions of the respec- Inclusion in Mind! 6,202
tive target group. A web-based and target group-oriented Expert Modules3
training program is available for employees in administrative Compliance@Marketing and Sales 12,123
areas, consisting of a range of mandatory modules. Employees Compliance@Procurement 387
from production and production-related areas can voluntarily Insider Law 1,532
take part in the training program. The training modules are Product Compliance 8,499
assigned when an employee is hired, promoted or transferred 1 This module is automatically assigned to all active employees (full-time
and part-time employees) in the administration of Daimler Truck AG and
to a function that involves an increased risk. The web-based
controlled group companies who meet the IT requirements for carrying out
training measures are available worldwide via a Learning training courses in the Daimler Truck Learning Management System.
Management System (“LMS”). We are supplementing our web- 2 This module is automatically assigned to all managers (full-time and
part-time employees, level 4 and higher) of the administration of Daimler
based training program with face-to-face training, some of
Truck AG and controlled group companies that meet the IT requirements
which we conducted in digital form in 2022. We also offer for carrying out training courses in the Daimler Truck Learning Manage-
information and qualification measures for supervisory and ment System.
3 These modules are automatically assigned to relevant active employees
management functions. As part of an executive onboarding
(full-time and part-time employees) in the administration of Daimler
program, we are providing information on legal and compli- Truck AG and controlled Group companies who meet the IT requirements
ance topics in order to assist newly appointed Supervisory for carrying out training courses in the Daimler Truck Learning Manage-
ment System.
Board members and members of the executive management of
4 Number of participants shows the training completions in the Learning
the Group companies in their new role. M anagement System.
B.28
Compliance Training Program
Management and employee training
Executive Onboarding Program for CEOs – O nboarding with all newly appointed CEOs and CFOs (mandatory).
and CFOs of the Daimler Truck Group
Web-based compliance training – Centrally assigned basic, management and expert modules (mandatory)
program for employees in administrative areas of Daimler Truck AG and controlled
companies taking into.
account the respective role, function and risk.
– System-based reporting functions and automatic reminders to
track completion of mandatory trainings.
Face-to-face / virtual trainings – T he local Legal and Compliance network offers additional training in
face-to-face and/or virtual formats as required - taking into account the
local risk profile of the respective unit and the centrally available web-
based training courses. The infrastructure for the documentation of these
training sessions is provided centrally.
Compliance awareness for business partners
Compliance Awareness Module – T he web-based Compliance Awareness Module is made available online
for suppliers and sales business partners to Daimler Truck suppliers and sales business partners. The content
refers amongst others to our Daimler Truck Business Partner Standards.
– T he module explains our guiding principles for integrity and supports our
business partners in dealing with potential integrity and compliance risks.
B.30 In the reporting year, the described monitoring process and
Compliance training program - face-to-face training courses1,2 the annual adequacy and effectiveness review did not reveal
GRI 205-2 any indications that the compliance program, processes or
measures decided upon would not be appropriate or effective
Compliance fields Number of participants
in the context of the company’s risk situation.
- Anti-Corruption 11,813
- Anti-Money Laundering
- Antitrust ▾ Furthermore, KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft,
- Compliance in General
Berlin, audited the CMS of the former Daimler AG for anti-cor-
- Data Compliance
- Export Control ruption, antitrust and technical compliance (“tCMS”) in accor-
- Sanctions Compliance dance with Auditing Standard 980 of the German Institute of
1 Face-to-face trainings were partly carried out in digital form. Public Auditors. The audits were geared to appropriateness,
2 Target group: Relevant managers and administration employees worldwide.
implementation and effectiveness, and were successfully com-
pleted for the former Daimler AG, for CMS anti-corruption in
▾
Monitoring and improvements 2019, for tCMS with a focus on emissions relevance in 2020,
and for CMS antitrust in 2021 as a re-audit after the initial
Daimler Truck reviews its CMS programs, processes and mea- audit in 2016. In 2019, the design of the Data CMS was also
sures on the basis of an annual monitoring process and ana- audited. Selected units of Daimler Truck AG also participated
lyzes whether they are appropriate and effective. Centrally in the decentralized effectiveness audit.
available data and, if necessary, local information is accessed.
References to non-effective implementation of measures are Risk and opportunity management
recorded as part of monitoring and measures are defined for GRI 2-25
this purpose. If required by changing risks or new legal require-
ments, we adapt our processes and measures in the CMS. Risk and opportunity management is an integral part of the
Group-wide planning, management and reporting process. It is
The monitoring results and other possible measures are evalu- intended to support the achievement of the Company’s goals
ated and approved by the Compliance Board. The compliance in a sustainable manner and to raise awareness of risks in the
risk and monitoring process is carried out at Daimler Truck for Company. The ESG-related risks and opportunities that are
all specified compliance fields. Compliance fields that are in linked to our own business activities, products, and services of
the process of being set up are subject to an adequacy check. Daimler Truck and that could very probably have serious nega-
Moreover, compliance programs and processes along estab- tive impact on the non-financial aspects with regard to the
lished areas are examined in regard to their effectiveness. ▴ CSR Directive Implementation Act (“CSR-RUG”) can be found
in the overall assessment of the risk and opportunity situation
in the risk and opportunity report of the combined manage-
ment report. There was no occurrence of serious non-financial
risks in the year under review. Detailed information can be
E
found in the Risk and Opportunity Report. ▴
Tax obligations The worldwide responsibility for tax is allocated to the Head of
GRI 207 Tax of Daimler Truck. Significant tax-relevant decisions are
made in the Tax Compliance and Tax Risk Committee (“TCRC”),
Daimler Truck sees itself as a responsible company that strives which the Chief Financial Officer is a member of. The TCRC is
to comply with its worldwide tax obligations. In this context, also kept informed on an ongoing basis about material tax
we want to live up to our corporate values and to our social issues.
and ethical responsibility.
The tax policies regulate the responsibilities, tasks and duties
As part of the tax strategy of the Group, we pursue the follow- of the persons entrusted with tax matters at Daimler Truck. In
ing principles in particular, taking into account the economic addition, they provide concrete implementation guidelines for
and social impacts and in accordance with the corporate and meeting relevant legal obligations and enhance our employees’
business strategy: awareness of tax-related issues. In accordance with the
Group’s Code of Conduct, intentional violations of external
– Through our actions, we want to ensure that the tax obliga- and/or internal tax requirements must be reported and fol-
tions of Group’s companies are met and integrity standards lowed up. The same applies to failure to correct incorrectly
are maintained through measures such as efficient, processed transactions.
high-quality and reliable expertise, processes, systems,
methods and controls. The Group-wide Tax CMS is a defined sub-area of our general
CMS and is the responsibility of the Tax department.
– We live an active risk management for the Group and its
operational employees through an appropriate Tax Compli- Tax risk management is also part of the Tax CMS. Its function
ance Management System (“Tax CMS“). is to monitor and check whether tax obligations are met. This
risk management system, which is consistent across the
– We pursue legal, active and non-aggressive tax planning Group, serves to identify and reduce tax risks within Daimler
based on economic grounds (“tax follows business”). This Truck and associated personal risks of the employees acting
means that we, as a company, comply with our responsibility on behalf of the Group. It comprises numerous measures, such
as a taxpayer. We also strive to work cooperatively, transpar- as ongoing monitoring or integration of tax risks in the internal
ently, and constructively with the tax authorities. In the pro- control system and in the Group-wide risk management pro-
cess, we maintain our legal standpoints and defend our cess in accordance with the risk management policy. In the
interests wherever we believe such actions are appropriate year under review, we were not aware of any significant viola-
and legitimate. The Group’s tax strategy defines the limits of tions of tax laws that would have resulted in criminal proceed-
our actions, and this strategy is further specified and imple- ings.
mented by means of organizational and content-related
policies, provisions, and instructions.
Commitment
Dialog with politics and society
GRI 2-29 SDG 17 GRI 415-1
Human beings can only overcome the major social and envi- We define political representation as the constant dialog with
ronmental challenges, such as climate change, by working decision-makers at various political levels. These include politi-
together. Daimler Truck also makes an important contribution cians, members of the government, public officials and repre-
here: We contribute our expertise to social dialog and work sentatives of interest groups, trade organizations and associa-
jointly with representatives from politics and society to find tions, which in turn maintain political contacts.
solutions. Daimler Truck would like to be involved in political
and public opinion-forming processes as a trustworthy and We have set out our own principles for political dialog and for
reliable discussion partner. In this respect, the overarching the responsible representation of interests and, with involve-
objective is to take on social responsibility and on a permanent ment of the management, compiled them into a Group policy.
basis to reconcile corporate and social interests. Specifically, We maintain political restraint, balance, and neutrality in our
the exchange is about helping to shape sustainable solutions dealings with governments, political parties, members of par-
to societal challenges. liament and officials.
Stakeholders under the spotlight In addition, we have defined binding internal guidelines, which
are laid down in the Daimler Truck Code of Conduct, among
B.31 others. Dealing with grants, making party donations and the
Ongoing stakeholder involvement approach to other instruments for the representation of politi-
GRI 2-29 cal interests is also governed by our Group policy on lobbying
political and party donations. Daimler Truck AG is listed in the
People - Surveys and internal webcasts with Q&A
- Intranet, sentiment EU transparency register as well as in the lobby register for
- Integration into strategy via working groups representation of interests to the German Bundestag and the
Customers - Driving events and driver surveys Federal Government.
- Surveys at fleet customers
- Trade fair like “IAA TRANSPORTATION”
We use various tools to ensure that the political representation
Suppliers - S upplier surveys
- Daimler Truck Supplier Award of our interests complies with applicable regulations and ethi-
Investors - Annual General Meetings cal standards. In this respect, we are especially careful to
- ESG ratings observe antitrust requirements when working in industry asso-
- Roadshows, Capital Market Days
ciations and cooperating with other companies. The policies
Politics, NGOs and the - Events like IAA Transportation
mentioned above also define how we intend to address risks in
media - Interviews and press conferences
- Annual General Meetings connection with the political representation of our interests.
- CEO podcast “Transportation Matters” We also address these risks in compliance processes applica-
ble throughout the Group. Information related to our activities
in the area of political representation of interests is received
by our whistleblower system BPO. Daimler Truck did not make
any donations, either monetary or in kind, to political parties in
any part of the world during the year under review. The deci-
sion to do this has been made independent of current political
or economic events.
Employees of Daimler Truck controlled Group companies who
represent political interests must report and register with
the relevant department in accordance with the Group policy
on lobbying work.
Industry associations and initiatives Corporate citizenship
GRI 2-28 GRI 203-1
In addition to direct interaction with political decision-makers By corporate citizenship activities we mean all the Group’s
and other stakeholders who are committed to sustainable social activities, such as donations, corporate volunteering and
development, Daimler Truck is involved in various associations, disaster relief. In the future, these will be aligned with the
bodies, and sustainability initiatives. These include among oth- Group’s sustainable business strategy and core business.
ers in particular the UN Global Compact, econsense, the sus-
tainability initiative of the Federal Association of German An important part of our global social commitment consists of
Industries, Drive Sustainability and Hydrogen Europe. Daimler donations to charitable organizations and the sponsoring of
Truck uses these forums to have a dialog with representatives social projects.
of civil society. In the reporting year, the focus was especially
on projects related to the further development of alternative Throughout the Group, donations are selected in accordance
drives to innovative renewable technologies, such as the use of with local legal and internal company criteria. In the reporting
hydrogen. year, €3.4 million was released for disbursement at national
and international level.
We are also involved in industry associations – including as a
member of the German Association of the Automotive Industry In addition to our donation activities in Germany, in the year
(“VDA”) and corresponding associations in other countries, under review we focused on supporting local people due to the
such as European Automobile Manufacturers’ Associaction war in the Ukraine, for example by providing various non-profit
(“AECA”) at European level. organizations with vehicles for humanitarian aid transport. We
also released employees who drove the trucks for aid trans-
Diversity, equal opportunities and inclusion also play an port. The Company also made a large donation to UNICEF and
important role at Daimler Truck, which is why the Group, as a organized a fundraising campaign for employees for the
member of the employer initiative, “Charta der Vielfalt e.V.” “UNHCR” in which the amount donated by employees was dou-
and the European Women’s Management Development Net- bled by the Company. Furthermore, EvoBus GmbH donated
work e.V., actively participates in discussions on these topics. five buses to the German Red Cross. In total, €2.1 million of
humanitarian aid was released for disbursement by the Task
We actively participate in association work that is relevant to Force set up for this purpose.
our core business. We contribute our company-specific per-
spective and experience and thus help to advance the discus- Moreover, we encourage our employees to get involved in
sion in a factual and qualified manner. socially beneficial projects, help to improve the social environ-
ment in the communities where Daimler Truck locations are
based, and initiate aid projects worldwide (corporate volun-
teering).
Another example of the commitment of our workforce is the
“ProCent” initiative. Employees in Germany can donate the cent
amounts of their monthly paychecks. These amounts will be
doubled by the company and added to a promotional fund for
national and international charitable projects. Our employees
propose projects which potentially should receive money from
this fund. In the 2022 reporting year, the provision of play-
ground equipment for kindergartens and new kitchen equip-
ment for the “Tafel” in Germany were some of the areas
funded at national level. At international level, projects were
supported via the ProCent donations, especially in Africa, such
as the construction of a storage facility at a village in Togo and
Immediate measures due to solidarity with the Ukrainian the funding of training for operating well-drilling rigs in the
population: Donation of over €1 million to UNICEF. Democratic Republic of Congo. A total of eleven projects at
national level and three projects at international level amount-
ing to a total of around €120,000 were approved for disburse-
ment in the 2022 reporting year.
ENVIRONMENT
We are strongly committed to the Paris Agreement on climate change
mitigation. We want sustainable transportation to succeed and thus make
a significant contribution to combating global climate change.
Sustainability at Daimler Truck
Environment
analysis. The following environmental topics were identified as
material:
As a global company, we strive to enhance the quality of life
and the environment in the regions in which we operate. The 1. Climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation;
protection of the environment is not detached from other 2. Resource efficiency;
objectives: Rather, it is an integral part of our corporate strat- 3. Prevention of pollution;
egy, which is geared towards long-term value enhancement 4. Green supply chain.
and sustainability. To this end, we are developing key technolo-
E
gies intended to make our customers successful in the long- Additional information can be found under Materiality
term and to take account of environmental impacts along the analysis.
entire value chain – from product planning and strategy,
through development, purchasing, production and production We want to make our contribution to complying with the Paris
planning right through to quality, supplier and product manage- Agreement and have therefore defined which measures are
ment and third-party customer business. necessary to do this. Management is responsible for setting
and reviewing strategic ambitions, such as the reduction of our
Key environmental issues and our management approach CO emissions. We have also refined our organizational struc-
2
GRI 3-3 ture at global and regional level for all energy and environmen-
tal management in order to focus in an even more targeted
In order to obtain a holistic picture of our environmental way on the corresponding issues.
impact and of the impact of the environment on Daimler Truck,
we have identified material topics within our materiality
B.32
Overview environment
Ambitions Achievements
Green Products – A whole range of emission-free trucks and bus models are already in series
production.
We strive for our new trucks and buses – Further expansion of our product roadmap to battery electric and hydrogen-based
to be CO2-neutral on the road in Europe, vehicles (“ZEV”) with the target of up to 60% share of sales of ZEV in the triade
US and Japan by 2039 – and globally markets in 2030.
by 2050. – Implementation of measures to increase fuel efficiency.
– Compilation of certified life cycle assessments for our product portfolio.
Green Production – Achievement of CO2-neutral balance sheet in our own production plants in Europe.
– 92% of our relevant locations are ISO 14001 certified.
We have realized CO2-neutral – Formulation of target values for our “green production” initiative:
production in Europe, By 2030, reduction of energy consumption by around 590 GWh worldwide, water
in the US, Japan and India we strive use by around 470k m3, waste generation by around 40 kt, scope 1 & 2 emissions
for it in 2025 – and globally by 2039. by 42% and increase in the share of renewable energy to 55%.
Green Supply Chain – First Daimler Truck Supplier Award ceremony.
– Implementation of the CDP supply chain program with a response rate of 63% of
We strive together with our direct invited suppliers of our production material purchasing volume.
suppliers for CO2-neutral – Creation of transparency within the supply chain for batteries, steel, aluminum
products and services in Europe, and plastic.
the United States and Japan by 2039 – Project start to convert own inbound logistics to CO2 neutrality and creating CO2
- and globally by 2050. transparency.
Climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation and air. No less important is the fact that the use of natural
Daimler Truck is committed to the Paris Agreement and shape resources also harbors social risks. A fair distribution of raw
the path to CO -neutral transportation. About one fifth of all materials, secure access to clean drinking water, and obser-
2
greenhouse gas emissions in Europe are produced as a result vance of human rights in the course of raw material extraction
of the transport of goods and people on roads. We take cli- are only a few of the challenges.
mate change mitigation and climate change adaptation into
account in our range of activities: During our product develop- At Daimler Truck, we are continuously working on reducing the
ment, within the supply chain and also in our production. We resource consumption in our products. The areas of vehicle
regard it as our mission to make transportation CO -neutral concepts, vehicle development, production planning and pro-
2
worldwide through technical innovation. In this way, we aim to duction in particular are responsible for using resources spar-
contribute to the decarbonization of the industry. We are pur- ingly and designing and producing vehicles which use as few
suing the goal of CO -neutrality on the roads and throughout resources as possible. We make decisions concerning these
2
the entire value chain globally by 2050, as well as CO -neutral areas in the specialist committees responsible for the respec-
2
driving for new vehicles (tank-to-wheel) in the triad markets tive model series. These committees consist of the subsection
(EU, United States and Japan) by 2039. representatives and expert groups such as those dealing with
specific groups of materials.
At the end of 2022, we already had a whole range of emis-
sion-free truck and bus models in series production in our core When making fundamental decisions regarding construction
regions Europe, the United States and Japan. In the coming concepts, production technologies and the use of materials,
years, we intend to not only add more vehicles with battery company management is bound by various committees, in par-
drives but also with hydrogen-based fuel cells. ticular in the Board of Management meetings. It takes into
account a variety of factors– in addition to costs, resource-ef-
Resource efficiency ficient technologies and alternative materials, including sec-
The growing global economy and demand for the transport of ondary materials and renewable raw materials, and opportuni-
goods and people are also increasing the consumption of ties for industrialization. During this process, management
resources, which can have a negative impact on the environ- examines to what extent the results of development can be
ment and society. For example, in many cases the extraction transferred to large-scale industrial production, for example
and further processing of primary raw materials is energy-in- with regard to the use of raw materials. Some of these sub-
tensive and leads to the emission of pollutants into water, soil stances can be categorized as scarce or critical.
B.33
Governance structure and responsibility
Board of Management (BoM)
Corporate Sustainability Board as part of BoM
Daimler Truck
Holding AG
and Sustainability Steering Group Environmental &
Daimler Truck AG Committee Energy Officer
Group Environmental & Cross-divisional Environmental &
Energy Management Energy Committees/Panels
Trucks
Management Mercedes-Benz Trucks Asia Daimler Buses Financial Services
North America
representatives
of segments
Environmental and Energy Management Representatives*
Representatives Environmental and Energy Management Representatives*
of sites
Management HR Legal & Compliance R&D Purchasing
representatives of
central functions IT Sales/After Sales Finance Quality
* Can be represented by one or two persons.
We therefore monitor them closely and try to continuously To guarantee that the Group standards are implemented, we
reduce the amount of material that is needed per vehicle. To have been applying the environmental due diligence method
this end, we start to take the approach of “Design for Environ- throughout the company since1999 – both as part of the for-
ment” as early as during the vehicle development stage. This mer Daimler AG and now as an independent company. It helps
means we design our vehicles to be as resource-conserving us to identify, assess and avoid potential risks of pollution at
and environmentally friendly as possible during their entire life our production sites at an early stage and to comply with a
cycle. The cornerstones of this approach are lightweight engi- high environmental standard worldwide. The topic of hazard-
neering, the use of recycled materials, recycling and life cycle ous substances also plays a central role here.
assessments.
In a five-year cycle, we audit and assess all the consolidated
Furthermore, we anticipate future legal regulations and incor- production facilities of Daimler Truck in accordance with a
porate the expected requirements into product development at standardized process. The results are reported to the respec-
an early stage. Examples include the future changes in battery tive manufacturing site and executive management so that any
regulation with legally prescribed targets for recycling effi- potential optimizations can be made. In addition, we review on
ciency, raw materials to be recovered and their reuse in pro- an annual basis the extent to which our recommendations for
duction using recycling quotas. The concurrent discussed risk minimization and pollution prevention at the production
extension of the end-of-life regulation for vehicles (currently sites have been implemented.
valid for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles) to
heavy commercial vehicles and buses could build on the pro- Green supply chain
cesses, obligations and target values documented in the bat- Suppliers are an important part of our production network.
tery regulation. They can therefore make important contributions through their
commitment to climate protection and resource conservation.
In order to be prepared for this and to be able to take into Accordingly, we strive to raise the awareness of our suppliers
account such sustainability criteria at an early stage in the and support them on our path to greater environmental protec-
development and supplier selection process and incorporate tion in the supply chain.
them into the decision, we currently include corresponding
requirements in the component requirement specifications. Through the transformation of our product portfolio towards
zero-emission vehicles, emissions in the manufacturing phase
Preventing pollution of the products are becoming increasingly important in rela-
We design the stages of production to be as environmentally tion to the total emissions during the product life cycle. Raw
friendly as possible and focus on the development of emis- materials are considered to be an important driver of emis-
sion-free vehicles. For this purpose, we are striving to imple- sions in the supply chain.
ment the legal processes and measures required to minimize
risks at all our production sites as part of the environmental Our objective is to use the supply chain as a key lever to
management systems that are ISO14001-certified or validated reduce our CO emissions in order to reduce the carbon foot-
2
by the European environmental management and auditing sys- print of our products across the value chain and life cycle.
tem (“EMAS”). Our activities focus on assets requiring protec- Transparency about emissions in the supply chain is therefore
tion such as air, water (groundwater and surface water, lakes, an important prerequisite.
and rivers) and soil. For their protection, we have defined tech-
nical and organizational requirements within the framework of On the one hand, our measures for a green supply chain relate
company-wide standards. Ensuring environmentally friendly to suppliers as our business partners, but on the other, they
handling of hazardous substances is particularly relevant. We also relate to the purchased parts and materials as well as the
have defined clear internal processes, specifications and stan- transport routes to our production facilities. Further informa-
E
dards to ensure the safe storage and environmentally friendly tion on this can be found in chapter Green supply chain.
use of hazardous substances at our sites. An internal handling
permit for chemicals is required for using hazardous sub-
stances at our sites, after assessment of their environmental
hazard. Furthermore, substitution processes to improve the
environmental compatibility of existing substances will be initi-
ated if necessary.
Green products
In general, we expect all suppliers to comply with the environ-
mental requirements described in our Business Partner Stan- GRI 301, 302, 305, 306 SDG 11, 12, 13, 17
dards and also to pass them on to their own supply chain. In
order to fulfill our due care obligations, we have developed a
comprehensive concept for the sustainability management of Climate change mitigation through innovative products
both environmental and social factors in the supply chain. In
addition to including the requirements in contractual terms, it The biggest factor influencing the climate, which trucks and
contains assessment instruments as well as information and buses have, lies in the usage phase, for example, with the cus-
qualification measures for suppliers. tomer and in driving behavior. Therefore, a vehicle that is
fuel-efficient and climate-friendly from the outset is an essen-
Further information on the business partner standards can be tial prerequisite for contributing to climate protection by the
w
found on our Website. transport sector. Daimler Truck is working purposefully to
make vehicles more environmentally friendly and, in particular,
According to our contract terms, direct suppliers are obliged to focus on product-related climate protection. In our technol-
to comply with our sustainability requirements. The circular ogy strategy, we have defined two focus areas: The drive and
economy is a part of this, which is why minimizing waste, for operating system of a commercial vehicle. On the driving side,
example through recycling, is a clear requirement. The use and we keep the combustion engine competitive on the one hand
consumption of resources during production should also be and are developing CO -neutral drives with a battery and
2
reduced or avoided. At the same time, the focus should be on hydrogen on the other. With regard to the operating system,
the use of alternative materials, material savings, recycling and we aim to add value for our customers with innovative soft-
the reuse of materials. ware and electronics solutions.
Suppliers must design and implement the processes and pro- EU legislation focuses on new vehicles for reducing CO emis-
2
cedures along their entire value chain in such a way that the sions in road traffic and sets out specific targets. For new
product can be utilized in the best way possible at the end of heavy-duty trucks over16t, it requires CO emissions to be
2
its service life. reduced on average by15% by 2025 and by 30% by 2030
in comparison to the survey period from July1, 2019 to
June 30th, 2020. For this purpose, the European Commission,
together with scientists and with the support of industry and
other experts, has developed a uniform Europe-wide simulation
program called the vehicle energy consumption calculation tool
(“VECTO”). This also includes the relevant test and measure-
ment procedures for CO emissions and fuel consumption. The
2
relevant data will be collected throughout Europe and will be
made transparent. Daimler Truck has defined a technology
roadmap to meet EU requirements and is consistently focusing
on CO -neutral trucks and buses for the local market.
2
B.34
Our path to CO -neutral transport
2
Ambition for Hydrogen-powered 100% offer of new vehicles
second half of series-production CO 2-neutral in driving
the decade fuel-cell trucks and buses operation worldwide
by 2022 by 2030 by 2039 by 2050
Series produced
vehicles with Sales share of up to
battery-electric 60% vehicles 100% offer of new
drive systems CO -neutral in driving vehicles CO -neutral
2 2
(EU, Japan, United operation in driving operation
States) (EU, Japan, United States) (EU, Japan, United States)
Our strategy includes a clear plan for the transition to At Daimler Truck, we are aware of the different pace of trans-
zero-emission vehicles. We are investing in the development of formation around the world. The conventional powertrain
competitive products tailored to customers’ needs. When will remain a key product this decade – in some regions even
developing the all-electric Mercedes-Benz trucks, Daimler beyond 2030; in others we will see a rapid increase in the
Truck is focusing in particular on the aspect of customer share of zero-emission vehicles (“ZEV”). Daimler Truck has
co-creation. This means that product development includes therefore defined a strategy to reduce the current diesel pow-
collaborating with truck customers and has allowed us to ertrain portfolio while remaining competitive.
ensure that customer feedback on the electric truck was taken
into account early on in the development of the
Mercedes-Benz eActros and could be incorporated into devel-
opment. This will be retained for future products on the pro-
cess side. Our colleagues in the US market, including within
the framework of an “Electric Vehicle Council”, are also in reg-
ular contact with customers on the topic of e-mobility – in par-
ticular on technical and sustainability concepts for the future.
Moreover, when developing commercial vehicles with battery-
and hydrogen-based drive system technology, Daimler Truck
maintains a dialogue with representatives of cities and with
leading experts on the issues of urban and transportation
development. This provides us with a valuable impulse for new
strategic initiatives.
In addition to developing innovative emission-free products,
we are also driving innovation in infrastructure for the transfor- In our core regions, we already have a whole range of
mation of the transport sector: Pushing for the provision of emission-free truck and bus models in series production.
infrastructure for our customers and vehicles, which will be
operated on the basis of the newly created infrastructure. In
order to achieve TCO parity (Total Cost of Ownership or the
total costs of operation) and reduce costs, we use economies
of scale and partnerships and at the same time expand our
own know-how for differentiating technologies. In this way, we Dual strategy: Powered by battery and hydrogen
aim to continuously increase sales of emission-free vehicles in Daimler Truck is relying on two complementary technologies to
the markets and at the same time reduce the number of con- supply energy to the engines in the decarbonization of trans-
ventional vehicles. portation and passenger transport: batteries and hydrogen fuel
cells. With this dual strategy, we aim to achieve the goal of
CO -neutral transportation of goods and CO -neutral passen-
2 2
ger transportation on the roads by 2050. Further information
w
can also be found on our Website.
B.35
System view
Technical view Customer view Infrastructure view
Technology selection Depending on specific use cases, BEV or H The best ZEVs are not good without
2
can be the better customer fit sufficient green energy & infrastructure
Scalable and Flexible carrier
Daily Payload Recharging Operating cost-efficient for global
range speed Cost infrastructure energy trade
or
B.36 Digital services to increase efficiency and
Product category reduce CO 2 emissions
Daimler Truck offers its customers a broad portfolio of
services to reduce fuel consumption in diesel trucks or facili-
tate the transition to zero-emission vehicles. The services
are marketed under the Mercedes-Benz and Fleetboard
Trucks and buses
(Mercedes-Benz Region Europe and Latin America), Detroit
Connect (Trucks North America), OMNIplusON (Daimler Buses)
and truckonnect (Trucks Asia) brands.
Digital services Digital services help to optimize in particular fuel consumption,
and systems reduce wear and tear on the vehicle and reduce the risk of
accidents. They provide in-depth information on the driver’s
driving behavior as well as CO emissions and help fleet man-
2
agers and drivers use the vehicles as efficiently as possible.
Typical use cases include driving style assessment, driver
coaching, CO reports and support for safe driving.
Charging infrastructure 2
and partnerships
Digital services also assist in the transition to zero-emission
trucks. For example, the Charge Management service provides
detailed information on charging processes. Other services
enable route planning, provide information on vehicle use and
thus support fleet customers’ deployment planning. Daimler
Truck makes use of global services that are adapted to the vari-
Truck and bus fleet with battery and hydrogen drive
ous regional requirements.
Daimler Truck started to develop alternative drive technologies
early on and already offers a large fleet of locally emission-free
vehicles in various markets around the world. Today, our vehi-
cle portfolio already includes series-produced vehicles with
battery-electric drives in the main sales regions of the EU30
(Europe, the United Kingdom, Switzerland and Norway), the
United States and Japan. The first prototypes of our hydrogen-
based Mercedes-Benz GenH2 truck are in test operation in
Europe.
You can find the product related highlights of the reporting
E
year 2022 under Important events 2022.
B.37
Product portfolio ZEVs
2021 2022 2020 202X 2024 2027+ 2021 2018 2022 2023 2023 2023
Thomas Built Freightliner Freightliner Mercedes-Benz Mercedes-Benz Mercedes-Benz Mercedes-Benz Mercedes-Benz Mercedes-Benz Freightliner Mercedes-Benz FUSO
Buses eCascadia CustomChassis eAtego eActros GenH2 Truck eActros eCitaro eEconic eM2 fully electric eCanter
Saf-T-Liner eWalk-in Van LongHaul bus chassis Next
C2 Jouley eO500U Generation*
* FUSO eCanter first generation already in series production since 2017.
Partnerships for new technologies and infrastructures Climate change mitigation and air pollution control in the
We not only work to bring new zero-emission vehicles to the development process
market, but also to speed up the development of the available Legislators all over the world have set standards for emissions
infrastructure for our customers in order to operate these vehi- in order to regulate the emission of harmful substances such
cles efficiently. We believe that the transformation of passen- as nitrogen oxides and particulates and to reduce air pollution.
ger and freight transport is only possible through a joint effort These emission limit values have become ever more stringent
by governments, vehicle manufacturers, technology and over the past few years. Daimler Truck takes into account the
energy companies. That is why we are a member of various pollutant emissions of its vehicles early on in the development
partnership initiatives with the aim of achieving an emis- process. Our environmental and energy policies define how we
sion-free transport environment in the future. This includes intend to reach this goal. Further information on the guidelines
E
partnerships with suppliers and technology companies to can be found in chapter Green production.
develop our products, with energy and system companies to
provide leading charging technologies, and with fuel compa- Product development plays a key role in climate protection and
nies to enhance the availability of liquid hydrogen at gas sta- air pollution control: A vehicle’s environmental impact — and
tions. that includes its emissions of CO and pollutants — is largely
2
determined during the first phases of its development. An
important instrument for testing the environmental compatibil-
ity of a vehicle is the documentation accompanying develop-
ment. Here we define specific characteristics and target val-
ues, for example, for fuel consumption and pollutant emissions
that must be achieved for every vehicle model and every
engine variant. Based on these target values, we assess our
progress in the course of product development and initiate
corrective measures as required.
In order to remain below these limit values today and in the
future, we are continuously developing our technologies. IT
solutions and intelligent, integrated utilization concepts enable
a further reduction in pollutant emissions in addition to effi-
cient drive and emission control. Daimler Truck has also devel-
oped comprehensive concepts for air pollution control in the
vehicle cab to protect drivers and passengers.
Battery development InnoLabs
GRI 306-2 In order to further drive the transition to CO -neutral trucks
2
Batteries are a key component of e-mobility. At Daimler Truck, and buses, Daimler Truck has established competence centers
experts from a variety of disciplines deal with all aspects of for battery and high-voltage systems, electrical drive compo-
this storage technology – ranging from fundamental research nents as well as hydrogen-based fuel cell units and electrical
to production maturity. We have been investing in resource-ef- drive systems. In the “InnoLabs”, short for innovation laborato-
ficient technologies and manufacturing processes for batteries ries, employees from development and production depart-
for years and are continuously working on optimizing the cur- ments work closely together. This gives us the opportunity to
rent lithium-ion battery. With our next-generation batteries, we test new technologies, develop and evaluate products and pro-
dispense with the otherwise usual and critical raw materials cesses, while always focusing on the impact on our environ-
nickel and cobalt and replace them with lithium-iron-phos- ment - not only in the product, but also in the selection of
phate (“LFP”). This way, we reduce our impact on people and materials and in the manufacturing process. Through the close
the environment on the one hand, and on the other, we achieve cooperation between the production and development depart-
a longer service life while at the same time increasing safety in ments, we ensure that the approach of remanufacturing, recy-
the vehicle. This also enables us to transfer our batteries to cling and generally the circular economy plays an essential role
“2nd life applications” after the vehicle’s life and thus further from the start of development.
extend the productive use of our storage systems. Our goal is
to shorten development cycles, lengthen the range through The InnoLab for eDrive and ZEV systems at the plants in Gag-
better energy density and reduce charging times. We are con- genau and Kassel, Germany, is part of the production and tech-
sistently expanding our research and development activities. nology network for electric drive components. The objective of
For example, we are developing our expertise regarding the InnoLab eDrive is to prepare our plants using innovative prod-
technological evaluation of materials and battery cells. ucts for a global modular system for future orientation toward
2030. In addition to the electric drive itself, InnoLab is respon-
In terms of sustainability and the circular economy, Daimler sible for the complete functionality of the eDrive – from the
Truck is also involved in the recycling of batteries – whether software function of the inverter to certification of the energy
through active participation in publicly funded projects (see label. We will also evaluate other high-voltage components for
“LiBInfinity”, funded by the Federal Ministry for Economic production in addition to producing electric motors and assem-
Affairs and Climate), in which later series processes are to be bling inverters for the electric drive. The InnoLab Battery at the
evaluated, or through its own research on future business Mannheim plant is the start of the development of a truck-spe-
models in the field of battery recycling. And, last but not least, cific battery for all our brands. It acts as a link between devel-
due to upcoming changes resulting from battery regulation, opment and production. Our vision is for our electric trucks to
the consistent implementation of a circular economy in the be powered by best-in-class cells and batteries.
battery sector offers positive effects on the CO footprint, the
2
use of resources along the value chain and the avoidance of
waste. Current recycling processes and those under develop-
ment are used to recover raw materials and thus not only
reduce waste quantities, but are also designed in such a way
that the recycling efficiencies for lithium batteries defined in
the upcoming battery regulation will be realized. In addition to
reducing the remaining quantities of waste, this will have a
positive impact on the total energy required throughout the
battery’s service life – from raw material extraction to final
recycling.
The circular economy We commit to build own LCA know-how in house, not only for
GRI 306-2 own production but also for purchased parts & materials. For
example, besides fulfilling our technical & quality requirements,
Life Cycle Assessment, also known as Life Cycle Analysis, batteries or steel with high recycled content, low environmen-
(“LCA”) is a process for evaluating the environmental impacts tal impact will further their card of being our suppliers. As an
of a product over the course of its entire life. Many aspects of OEM, we act responsibly and will incentivize our suppliers to
circular principles have a quantitative focus. For example, a reduce scope 3 emissions, to save resources in the supply
positive impact of recycling or remanufacturing can be demon- chain whole way through the material extraction stages.
strated through LCA. These aspects go hand-in-hand with LCA.
Findings from the LCA show that resource efficiency is the key
Life cycle assessment to the circular economy of products. Resource efficiency is
We use life cycle assessment as a holistic approach to assess being studied in two areas:
our products. Trucks and Buses are investigated over their
whole life cycle (supply chain, production, customer use and – Recycling of material during production, for example
end-of-life phase) to identify improvement potentials in terms pre-consumer scrap from the engine casting process, is
of environmental impact. Life cycle thinking, together with hot either recasted or recycled externally. The amount of pro-
spot analysis results are involved in our important activities duction scrap must first be optimized to save energy and
such as R&D, procurement, production – to optimize the envi- then fully recycled.
ronmental footprint of our products. We will promptly publish
the LCA results in a suitable form on our sustainability website – Recycling materials when a truck has reached the end of its
and make them accessible to everyone. These results will then service life - this is called post-consumer scrap.
be verified, therefore ensuring the quality of the data.
In order to positively influence the progress of the circular
economy, recycled content using post-consumer scrap in pur-
chased goods can be further promoted through the “Green
Procurement Strategy.” Further information on this can be
E
found in chapter Green supply chain.
B.38
The circular economy
Manufacturing
Pre-consumer
Raw material extraction
scrap
Post-consumer
scrap Reuse and
remanufacturing
End of Life
Recycling
Use Fuel Cycle
The five “Rs” The five “R”s stand for the various options for handling com-
GRI 306-2 mercial vehicles or their components at the end of their useful
The overarching goal of the circular economy is to maintain the life:
value of products, components, and materials as long as possi-
ble. Since 2015, this principle has been cherished in the EU’s - “Reuse”: Direct reuse of components in other similar prod-
Circular Economy Action Plan. At Daimler Truck we are also ucts;
increasingly focusing on measures that promote the circular
economy. We pledge to the following hierarchy of waste: The - “Repair”: Repair of components with the objective of reuse;
top goal is to avoid waste. In order to reach this goal, we are
working to extend the service life of all vehicle components — - “Remanufacturing”: Preparation of components with the
for example, by using especially durable materials. We are also objective of reuse under similar operating conditions;
using resources efficiently and reducing the use of raw materi-
als that are only available in limited amounts. Only then will - “Repurpose”: Use of components in other applications;
measures be taken to reuse various components and compo-
nent parts for material recovery. Daimler Truck sees the circu- – “Recycling”: Recycling of components with the objective of
lar economy as an end-to-end process that builds on each ele- recycling as many raw materials as possible.
ment along the value chain and service life of a product with
the aim of recycling raw materials and minimizing the amount The following graphic shows an example of the battery of an
of waste still generated at the end of the product’s life cycle electric vehicle for the individual phases in the product life
(“End of Life”, “EoL”). cycle.
B.39
The five “Rs”
Manufacturing
Production with input from
upstream value chain
Recycling Repurpose (2nd life)
Raw material mining/refining Pre-treatment and Refurbishment for 2nd life
Extracted raw materials from min- processing into application (e.g. stationary
ers and refiners recycled raw materials energy storage)
Reuse/Repair/Reman
If needed exchange of (spare) parts
and reassemble for use in BEVs
Electric Truck owner Dealership Disassembly
Acquisition of BEV* Diagnostics and Partial or full disassembly
including battery separation from chassis into sub-components
usage until battery
failure or end-of-life
Collection and logistics Testing and diagnostics
Transportation to central Diagnostics at centers, incl.
testing facility cleaning, safe storage,
testing, categorization, etc.
Using recycled and renewable raw materials Repair, reuse, remanufacture
Currently, Daimler Truck vehicles are mainly made of materials The primary objective for Daimler Truck witin the circular
such as steel, iron, aluminum and plastic. These materials economy is to maintain or repair vehicles and their individual
are also expected to be available in sufficient quantities in the components. This not only leads to a longer service life for
future. However, natural resources are needed to produce the customer, but also avoids direct waste.
them. Our goal is to keep this consumption of natural resources
as low as possible. For example, we have aluminum scrap If it is not economically viable to repair a vehicle, individual
recycled in order to return this recyclable material to our vehi- components (for example mirrors, engine attachments and
cles via the material cycle. This will not only conserve valuable trim panels) may still be used for the purpose of reuse in the
resources but also reduce CO emissions, because large used parts market.
2
amounts of energy are needed for aluminum smelting.
Used Mercedes-Benz trucks with low mileage and low vehicle
However, the expansion of e-mobility is changing the need for age can receive the “Mercedes-Benz Certified” label after a
materials for vehicle production. The batteries of electric vehi- technical inspection. Trucks with the new label are no more
cles require metals such as lithium, cobalt and nickel. Given than five years old, have driven no more than 500,000 kilome-
this increasing demand for these materials, one important task ters and have been technically tested and repaired according
is to ensure sufficient availability. However, the commodities to stringent, uniform standards by our own TruckStores and
built into a battery-electric vehicle return to the raw material branches or Mercedes-Benz contract partners. We want to use
cycle only after many years, so newly extracted commodities this seal to further refine the profile of our used vehicle busi-
are mainly used until then. This creates challenges for supply ness and give our customers a special promise of quality.
chains that are dependent on such materials. Our vision at
Daimler Truck is to transform our entire value chain into as If both repair and reuse cannot apply as usage options, reman-
closed a loop as possible. For example, we want to recycle our ufacturing is an option. By remanufacturing, we mean recondi-
production waste and old materials as far as possible. tioning used original parts in such a way that their function,
safety and quality are equivalent to that of a new part. This is
Daimler Truck participates in individual research projects, such what the “Genuine Remanufactured Parts” brand stands for.
as the EIC Accelerator (European Innovation Council), the The used parts, mostly engines, transmissions or other compo-
REESilience (extracting rare earths from magnets) and LiBInfin- nents, are collected by the different Daimler Truck segments in
ity (recycling industrial batteries, EV batteries) in order to also the respective regions via the branches or sales partners. The
develop solutions for the other components, especially with process for preparing the “core” parts is similar in all regions:
regard to the transformation process for e-mobility compo- the received material is removed and inspected, comprehen-
nents, such as electric axles, adapted transmissions, fuel cells, sively inspected for its quality, cleaned, prepared, subjected
batteries and inverters; to create solutions early on and to take again to extensive quality tests and made available to the cus-
the findings and requirements into account in our own devel- tomer.
opment process.
This means that the remanufactured parts meet our high qual-
ity standards for new series production parts. Compared with
the production of a new part, significantly fewer commodities
are required, which means that we contribute to resource con-
servation and a more positive environmental footprint of our
vehicles. By extending the useful life of our vehicle parts and
by reconditioning them, we promote a non-dependence on
critical commodities and at the same time contribute to clos-
ing the material cycle in the sense of a circular economy.
Repurpose Recycling
The first deliberations on the topic of repurposing are already Due to future legal requirements, economic and environmental
ongoing in the Daimler Buses segment. A meaningful and framework conditions, as well as general market develop-
long-lasting second-life application of our high-voltage batter- ments, recycling in the sense of a universal circular economy
ies has been our objective since the start of production of our for individual components is gaining in importance. Daimler
electric buses. Accordingly, possible scenarios for the reuse of Truck is looking at potential business models, production pro-
batteries in electric vehicles have been and will be identified cesses and recycling solutions for the core components of
and assessed. e-mobility, such as high-voltage batteries, fuel cells, the e-axle
and other components. In addition to reducing waste, it also
After their “first life” in a vehicle, the batteries are still in very involves the reintroduction of the raw materials obtained into
good condition and are therefore too valuable to be recycled the production cycle and positive financial effects, for example
directly. The idea of Daimler Buses was therefore to use the through lower purchasing volumes of recycled material.
residual capacity of the batteries. Examples of applications
include peak load reduction in the power grid, emergency The recycling of our high-voltage batteries comes at the end of
power supply as an alternative to generators or lead-acid bat- every electric vehicle sold. For this reason, only batteries that
teries, and the use of batteries for self-consumption optimiza- qualify to be reused are installed in our vehicles.
tion combined with solar modules. This type of reuse is much
more resource-efficient than direct recovery through recycling In our bus vehicles, for example, we pay attention to a range of
and actively contributes to the transition to a circular economy. aspects that we consider to be crucial for quality. Through our
Daimler Truck Special Terms, our service providers and part-
From previous discussions with potential service providers, ners, among others, who work with us in recycling processes
Mercedes-Benz Energy GmbH has emerged as the most quali- are therefore encouraged to implement a resource-saving
fied partner for Daimler Buses to realize the reuse of our bat- recycling process in order to also save commodities, reduce
teries. A first-generation stationary storage system made from CO emissions, decrease water consumption and avoid waste
2
lithium-nickel-manganese-cobalt batteries (“NMC batteries”) themselves.
has already been implemented jointly at an eCitaro customer
in Hanover as part of the “GUW” research project (regenera- Cell and material manufacturers are currently developing new
tive and controllable DC substation). The storage system with recycling methods along the value chain and are further
a total capacity of more than 500 kWh stabilizes the local expanding their recycling offering. In the future, new recycling
streetcar power grid and enables cost-effective fast charging service providers can be expected to enter the European mar-
of electric buses. The project is funded by the Federal Ministry ket as well as increase the diversity of material recovery tech-
for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. For series production, nologies.
we are working closely with Mercedes-Benz Energy GmbH
on an optimal logistics concept and a resource-saving overall Vehicle batteries are collected and disposed via the
process. Mercedes-Benz Recycling System, “MeRSy”. It is a centrally
controlled recycling management system in the area of work-
shop waste disposal (for example removal of vehicle parts, liq-
uids and packaging of spare parts).
In addition to participating in publicly funded projects, the
Center of Competence Recycling was established at the Gag-
genau site at the beginning of 2022. The objective is to develop
legally compliant, economically viable and feasible recycling
solutions for the drive components (battery, electric motor and
fuel cell) of electric vehicles as a first step. The results are
intended to culminate in a Daimler Truck recycling strategy,
which can be gradually expanded to other components in order
to ultimately ensure that a vehicle can be recycled almost
entirely.
Green supply chain
We also use data from the organization CDP. For example, we
GRI 204, 301, 306, 308 SDG 9, 12, 13, 17 carried out the CDP supply chain program for the third time in
the year under review. As part of this program, we encouraged
our production material suppliers to report on the environmen-
At Daimler Truck, the upstream supply chain extends over tal impacts of their business activities and their climate change
many tiers in a worldwide network of players. As our business mitigation efforts. As in the prior year, this data survey focused
partners, our direct suppliers play a key role in this. By anchor- on suppliers of production materials, which account for around
ing sustainability standards in the contractual terms with our three quarters of our annual purchasing volume planned for
suppliers, we can assert binding environmental requirements 2022. Compared with the prior year, we included additional
such as environmentally friendly production, reduction of production material suppliers in the survey. The response rate
energy, water consumption and waste, as well as chemical and of the invited suppliers was around 75%. This means that we
hazardous substance management. We also expect our suppli- cover 63% of the purchasing volume in production material
ers of production materials to operate with an environmental planned for 2022. The program encourages suppliers to contin-
management system that is certified according to ISO14001, uously improve their CO reduction efforts. In order to create
2
EMAS or other comparable standards. Our goal is that at least transparency about their decarbonization strategies and CO
2
70% of our production material purchasing volume is covered reduction targets, we also have many direct discussions with
by environmental certificates. key suppliers.
In our efforts to create an environmentally friendly supply The CO footprint is increasingly becoming a criterion in pur-
2
chain, we not only focus on suppliers of materials and parts, chasing decisions. We like to know what the CO balance of
2
but also consider the transport routes to our plants. The the products delivered to us is. We are involved in industry
purchasing departments work together with the logistics associations and initiatives so that we can create comparable
departments and implement various measures. and recognized standards for emissions calculation and can
exchange best practices. For example, we participate in the
Transparency on the environmental impacts of the supply Europe-wide industry initiative Drive Sustainability and the
chain of our vehicle parts German sustainability network econsense (Forum for Sustain-
GRI 306-1, 308-2 able Development of German Business e.V.) in working groups
We work with various instruments to identify sustainability on climate change mitigation.
risks in the supply chain and check compliance with our stan-
dards. As part of our operational purchasing processes, we We would also aim to incorporate the CO and environmental
2
also use standardized sustainability assessments such as the footprint of materials and products from suppliers into the cre-
Sustainability Assessment Questionnaire (“SAQ”) from the ation of life cycle assessments or ecological assessments of
European Drive Sustainability initiative to obtain responses our products and have therefore adapted our contract terms
concerning all relevant sustainability criteria and incorporate “Daimler Truck Special Terms” to the corresponding require-
them into an assessment. Further information is available ment for determining the CO footprint. LCA policies and
E 2
under Our approach in the supply chain in the Social chap- reporting templates were developed and have already been
w
ter and on the website Drive Sustainability. made available to selected suppliers for recording LCA data.
As relevant environmental criteria in the SAQ, questions con- The exchange of information within and outside the Company
cerning the topics of reporting on environmental risk manage- plays an important role in the successful implementation of
ment, environmental guidelines, environmental and energy measures for an environmental friendly supply chain. We thus
management system, training for employees, use of renewable train the purchasers responsible for procuring production
energies, targets for emission reduction, hazardous substance material on the sustainability requirements for suppliers. In
and waste management, climate assessments such as the Car- addition, as part of the work with industry associations
bon Disclosure Project (“CDP”) rating and the transfer of envi- through Drive Sustainability, we also conduct web-based train-
ronmental requirements to the upstream supply chain are ing on awareness-raising measures for suppliers. Environmen-
included and integrated into an overall assessment of sustain- tal aspects such as energy consumption, emissions and
ability performance. This assessment is used as a mandatory resource management are also included.
criterion for new orders in production material purchasing
starting from a defined order volume. Public recognition for good performance is also important to
us in the area of climate change mitigation and resource con-
servation. For this reason, we hold a Supplier Award, which
recognizes suppliers for outstanding performance in the area
of sustainability in the categories of climate change mitigation
and resource conservation. This year, the award ceremony for
suppliers of production materials was held at the international
IAA Transportation trade fair as part of a celebratory event.
Sourcing sustainable production materials The core of our concept for battery-electric long-haul transpor-
GRI 306-1 tation is to offer customers a holistic transport solution con-
Based on life cycle assessments, we have determined the pro- sisting of vehicle technology, advisory, charging infrastructure
portion of materials in our products and are therefore familiar and services. In order to develop a targeted concept for emis-
with the main drivers of greenhouse gas emissions in the auto- sion-free supply logistics to the Wörth plant together with haul-
motive supply chain. These relate mainly to the production of ers, an individual analysis of the usual routes will initially be
commodities such as steel, aluminum or plastics. This is why carried out. It provides information on driving times and the
these materials are the focus of new projects and award deci- distance between delivery locations, charging options and indi-
sions. We are evaluating other potential materials and parts in vidual range. They will also receive support in integrating elec-
a step-by-step process, which may be candidates for CO -re- tric trucks into existing fleets and in realigning their logistics
2
duced or CO -neutral supply chains or for which we can centers, including advice on setting up the appropriate
2
increase the proportion of recycled materials. We are also in-house charging infrastructure. The next step is to extend
working closely with our future battery suppliers to rapidly the process to the other plants in our production network.
minimize CO emissions in the production process.
2
An integral part of our future inbound logistics concept for
Inbound logistics emission-free supply transport is also the development of a
We are pressing ahead with the transformation of the transpor- factory-owned charging infrastructure at the Wörth site. The
tation industry towards CO -neutral drive systems and are also approximately 50 charging stations, including megawatt
2
relying on e-trucks in our own supply chain. We have set our- charging stations for high-voltage battery charging, are
selves the ambitious objective of ensuring the delivery traffic planned at key points for supply transport in the immediate
to the Wörth plant, our largest assembly plant, is100% electric vicinity of production at the Wörth plant. The parts installed in
by the end of 2026. A significant part of the direct supply chain production are delivered just-in-time to the assembly line. The
can thus become CO -neutral. Together with logistics service time during which the freight of the electric truck will be
2
providers and freight forwarders who supply the Wörth plant unloaded will be used to recharge the vehicle’s battery. This
on a daily basis, we are working on the gradual integration of means that the vehicle ideally would not have to plan for any
electrically powered trucks into our fleets. Following the suc- further downtimes and can resume its route immediately after
cessful start of series production of the Mercedes-Benz eAc- the parts have been delivered. In addition, the possibility of
tros in 2021, which preceded extensive practical use by cus- rebundling and thus optimizing the supply flows in the trans-
tomers in recent years, we are providing further proof of the port network in a new consolidation center near the site is cur-
practical suitability of electric trucks in the transportation rently being examined.
industry with its diverse requirements. In the course of this,
we are also planning the construction of a factory-owned
charging infrastructure in Wörth, which will be available to
both suppliers and the Company’s own vehicles. Several
selected haulers will be part of the pilot phase, which is sched-
uled to be implemented this year. The first supply transports to
the Wörth plant, including those from sister plants, are
expected to be fully electric already in the course of 2023. The
pilot phase will include the use of electrically powered
Mercedes-Benz eActros 300 semitrailer tractors as well as the
eActros LongHaul at a later stage. This demonstrates the wide
range of applications of the two e-truck models under realistic
conditions in the Company’s own transport operations.
Green production
With the environmental and energy guidelines adopted by the
GRI 301, 302, 303, 304, 305, 306 SDG 6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 13, 15 Board of Management, the Daimler Truck Group defines its
environmental and energy policy and commits itself to an
integrated improvement process with regard to environmental
Environmental and energy management at our sites protection and the handling of energy, which drives forward
resource conservation and climate change mitigation in unison:
At our production sites, we implement environmental manage-
ment systems according to EMAS and/or ISO14001, which get 1. We address the challenges of the future pertaining to
regularly validated or recertified. In addition, we have been nvironmental and energy aspects.
working with ISO 50001 energy management systems at pro-
duction sites in Germany, the United States and some loca- 2. W e develop products that are particularly environmentally
tions outside these regions since 2012. friendly and energy-efficient in their respective market
segments.
In accordance with the standards, environmental and energy
management are firmly anchored in our organization. Their 3. We plan all stages of manufacturing to provide optimal
effectiveness is regularly reviewed and verified by third-party environmental protection and efficient energy utilization.
experts. In the reporting year, 46 of our total of 50 relevant
sites (production sites, development sites and test tracks) with 4. W e offer our customers comprehensive service and informa-
a participation of ≥ 50% were certified regarding environmental tion on environmental protection and energy consumption.
management. This covers about 80,000 employees, which cor-
responds to 99% of the relevant workforce. 5. We endeavor to achieve exemplary environmental and
energy performance worldwide.
6. We provide our employees and the public with comprehen-
sive information on environmental protection and energy
consumption.
These guidelines are binding for all employees at Daimler Truck
and for all sites. Besides this, we are aiming to ensure that
they are also implemented in joint ventures. At Daimler Truck,
responsibilities for the implementation and compliance with
environmental protection measures and energy efficiency
requirements are defined in all functional areas and at all com-
pany levels, from development and production to service and
sales.
B.40
green production target house
green production 2030
CO Renewable Energy Water Waste
2
Scope 1 + 2 Energies Efficiency Efficiency Reduction
Baseline 2021 2021 2013/2014 2013/2014 2013/2014
Daimler - 42% > 55% ~ - 590 GWh ~ - 470k m³ ~ - 40kt
Truck ~- 360 kt CO 100% green power - 16% per vehicle - 12% per vehicle - 12% per vehicle
2
> 5% generation
Sustainability targets for our production Energy-efficiency
GRI 302-4
Daimler Truck is striving for resource-saving and climate- As part of the “green production” initiative, we plan to cut
friendly production. We have launched the “green production” energy consumption in the production sites by around
initiative for this purpose. Green production aims to reduce 590 GWh by 2030 (with reference to the years 2013 and 2014).
CO emissions, increase the use of renewable energies, For this purpose, some of the projects implemented in 2022 in
2
increase energy and water efficiency and reduce waste at the Germany are listed below:
international production sites.
- Renovation of the ventilation system in logistics in Wörth;
By 2030, we aim to reduce energy consumption by around
590 GWh, water usage by around 470k m³ and waste genera- - Renewal of the recooling system in Kassel;
tion by 40 kt (based on mean figures from 2013 and 2014). For
this purpose, specific target values were calculated for each - Replacement of the illuminant to LED in Wörth;
Daimler Truck production plant.
- Adaptation of heating and air-conditioning technology in
We are committed to invest in climate-protecting technologies Leinfelden.
and projects around the world to help meet national and global
climate goals efficiently. Numerous other measures have been implemented at the
international plants. With the help of the green production
Furthermore, we are pursuing a 42% reduction in produc- database and in-house expert groups, a cross-plant dialogue
tion-related CO emissions by 2030, in relation to the emission on efficiency measures and feasibility check is carried out at
2
volumes of 2021. By 2030, at least 55% of energy should come all Daimler Truck production sites.
from renewable sources.
In order to follow up on the targets, a “green production data- B.41
base” was launched, in which all plants worldwide must enter Production-related energy consumption
their efficiency or reduction measures. Using this database, we GRI 302-1/-4/-5
track implementation progress and establish roadmaps for
▾ 2022 2021 2020
each production site to guide the achievement of the objec-
in GWh
tives.
Electricity 1,472 1,374 1,134
Decarbonization
Natural gas 1,414 1,609 1,537
By 2039, we will strive worldwide to achieve CO -neutral pro-
2 District heating 157 181 123
duction through the use of renewable energies and CO com-
2 Fuel oil 66 44 27
pensation certificates (scope1 & scope 2). We are pursuing
LPG 57 51 22
these goals in several steps: since 2022, we have been produc-
Coke 28 40 21
ing CO -neutral on the balance sheet in our production plants
2 Liquid fuels 226 205 175
in Europe and at some other sites; from 2025, the production
Total 3,420 3,504 3,038
sites in the USA, Japan and India and, from 2039, all other pro-
Of which from renewable energies % 29 18 17
duction sites worldwide are scheduled to follow. We pursue
these goals with several components, such as increasing
energy efficiency, increasing the use of renewable energies
and the temporary use of CO compensation certificates. B.42
2
Specific energy consumption per vehicle
GRI 302-1/-3/-4/-5
▾ 2022 2021 2020
in MWh
Buses 10.3 14.8 13.7
Trucks 6.3 7.3 7.9
B.43
Production-related CO -emissions from energy consumption
2
GRI 305-1/-2/-4/-5
▾ 2022 2021 2020
in 1,000 t
Natural gas 257 293 278
Fuel oil 17 12 7
LPG 13 11 5
Coke 10 15 8
Liquid fuels 59 54 46 The expansion of photovoltaics is an important building block
Total scope 1 357 385 344 for the energy independence at the production sites.
Electricity 295 449 350
District heating 35 31 21
Total scope 2, market based 330 480 372
Total scope 2, location-based 591 597 446
In addition to the purchase of green power, we are continu-
Total scope 1+2 687 865 715
ously driving forward our own generation of energy in the pro-
duction plants. In 2022, for example, we installed further pho-
tovoltaic (“PV”) systems at our German sites. The expansion of
B.44 PV technology at the German sites is part of an ongoing global
Specific CO -emissions per vehicle initiative. Around 7.2 MWp of PV modules are already installed
2
GRI 305-1/-4/-5 worldwide, so that around 7.9 GWh of electricity can be gener-
ated per year. In 2022, large PV systems were installed at eight
▾ 2022 2021 2020
locations and the plan is to considerably expand PV capacities
in kg
in the coming years. PV projects are currently also being
implemented in other plants, such as in Turkey and South
Buses
Africa.
Scope 1 1,185 1,858 1,738
Scope 2, market-based 703 1,037 1,250
We regularly check the availability of renewable energies at all
Total Scope 1 + 2 1,888 2,894 2,987
sites and use them where market conditions allow.
Trucks
CO carbon offsetting
Scope 1 654 791 880 2
Since January 2022, Daimler Truck has been offsetting all
Scope 2, market-based 623 1,039 987
remaining CO emissions at all sites in Europe and at some
Total Scope 1 + 2 1,278 1,830 1,867 2
other sites, with qualified climate change mitigation projects.
All compensation projects meet the high quality standards of
the Gold Standard. These projects not only prevent CO emis-
2
Green electricity and renewable energies sions, they also promote sustainable, socially beneficial, and
GRI 305-5 environmentally friendly development in many ways in the
We are continuously evaluating the regional energy markets in countries where the projects operate. Our portfolio also
order to expand the supply of green power at all locations. includes compensation projects that promote a renew-
Since the beginning of 2022, a majority of our production ables-based energy supply — for example, geothermal energy
plants in Europe has been supplied with green electricity from or through reduction of CO emission during the process of
2
wind turbines, photovoltaic systems and hydropower plants. drinking water purification.
For the German sites, a contractual agreement has been signed By 2025, we aim to have offset remaining CO emissions for all
2
with the suppliers to ensure that the production quantity is production sites in the United States, Japan and India.
identical to the electricity consumption for every quarter hour –
this is tracked via regular TÜV certification. In this way, we At Daimler Truck, we regard CO carbon offsetting as a means
2
ensure a one100% green electricity supply. By 2025, all produc- of transitioning to CO -free production. At the same time, we
2
tion plants in the United States, Japan and India are also sched- are working on further technical possibilities to reduce emis-
uled to be100% supplied by green power. All other in-house sions at the production sites. Our sustainability strategy aims
production sites are set to follow by 2030 at the latest. to prevent emissions as much as possible in the future. This
would allow us to dispense with compensation.
Air pollution control B.45
GRI 305-6 Production-related air emissions
As with other environmental aspects, our objective is to reduce GRI 305-6/-7
the environmental impact of air emissions from production as
▾ 2022 2021 2020
much as possible. For Daimler Truck, the relevant air pollut-
in t
ants are nitrous oxides, sulfur oxides, carbon monoxide and
particulate matter, which are mainly produced in combustion
Solvent emissions (VOC) 3,414 3,285 3,001
processes, as well as VOC emissions. Volatile organic com-
pounds (“VOC emissions”) mainly arise in painting processes.
Nitrogen oxides (NO X) 727 731 664
Carbon monoxide (CO) 270 196 195
Daimler Truck attaches particular importance to reducing VOC
emissions. This can be done by selecting newly developed,
Sulfur dioxide (SO 2) 33 24 19
Particulate matter (PM) 310 552 131
high solids paint materials, optimizing the paint processes and
establishing new, modern exhaust air purification systems. For
this reason, Daimler Truck has been continuously working for
years on developing and using new technologies and paints in B.46
cooperation with its suppliers. Specific VOC emissions per vehicle
GRI 305-6/-7
After five years of development, a new “wet-in-wet paint con-
▾ 2022 2021 2020
cept” was created worldwide in 2019. This new paint concept
in kg
offers many advantages, such as the reduction of application
steps. In summary, we call the new environmentally friendly
Buses 7.3 11.1 9.9
and flexible painting process, with all its innovative
Trucks 6.5 6.9 8.0
approaches, an “EcoPaint Truck.” This process has been intro-
duced in Wörth, the largest Mercedes-Benz truck assembly
plant in the world. The majority of truck cabs there (around 70
to 75%) will be painted using the new energy-efficient EcoPaint Use of water
Truck process (“EP-T process”). GRI 303-1
Water shortages due to falling groundwater levels, heavy rain
Daimler Truck has developed an in-house standard to prevent, and flooding are affecting more and more regions worldwide.
minimize and eliminate environmental risks and the associated Conscious, efficient and sustainable use of water is essential
effects of production-related air pollutants, odors and noise. It given the state of global water resources. Daimler Truck aims
defines an uniform procedure for the documentation of air pol- to contribute to this and strives to continuously improve water
lution sources, the associated measurement obligations and efficiency and to close water cycles in order to sustainably
the definition of pollutant reduction measures at our produc- reduce water usage. Our water efficiency target can be found
tion sites. If the country-specific obligations that follow local in the “green production target house” in the subchapter
E
legislation are lower, the regulations of the standard must be Sustainability targets for our production.
followed.
At our Wörth site, the painting processes are increasingly being
For the German production sites, depending on the plant switched from wet scrubbers to dry separation in order to fur-
inventory, there are legally required air emission control repre- ther reduce the amount of water used in production. In addi-
sentatives who work towards the implementation of legal tion, measures are being promoted at the site to reduce drink-
requirements, participate in the development of low-emission ing water usage, which we can achieve with the automatic
processes and regularly report on the measures taken and control of taps, for example. At our truck production in Wörth,
intended. At all sites that are not subject to air emission con- well water is used as coolant and as sanitary water.
trol representative, environmental management regularly
checks whether the internal and external requirements for air In 2021, Daimler Truck (still under the former Daimler AG) car-
pollution control are met, followed and the reporting obliga- ried out a water risk assessment using a tool from the World
tions are met. Wide Fund for Nature (“WWF”) at the locations at Saltillo (Mex-
ico), Aksaray (Turkey) and Chennai (India), which are particu-
larly affected by water scarcity. The WWF water risk filter
examined both basin and operational water risks. Based on the
results, we defined various organizational and technical mea-
sures for the three sites already in 2021.
In 2022, we carried out the site-specific water risk assessment B.47
(“basin risk”) worldwide and thus built up data transparency Production-related water use1
for all our production sites. We will use the results to make GRI 303-3
corporate and local project decisions related to site develop-
▾ 2022 2021 2020
ment, to support customized water efficiency projects and
in 1,000 m3
water initiatives, and to proactively minimize our risks related
to water stress, potential water scarcity, flooding and water
Public water supply 2,607 2,466 2,515
quality.
Groundwater (well water) 1,780 1,816 1,605
Storm water used 279 229 56
Our Detroit remanufacturing site in Tooele, Utah is located in a
Total 4,665 4,511 4,176
very low precipitation region classified as extremely dry by the
1 Total water withdrawal (GRI 303-3) excl. ~8% of the water, which is
US National Weather Service. This is why the Every Drop transferred to third party companies, which are not part of Daimler Truck.
Counts local project was launched in 2022. The aim of the
project is to develop a sustainable solution to save water and
thus reduce water usage.
B.48
Our water management is subject to the applicable water pro- Production-related water discharge
tection law and we continuously adapt it to the current regula- GRI 303-4
tions. In addition, Daimler Truck has set itself the objective of
▾ 2022 2021 2020
fully implementing the Group’s internal standard for preventing
in 1,000 m3
rainwater contamination at all production sites around the
world by no later than 2030. Our plants have already started to
Direkt Discharge 877 1,044 714
implement it. The implementation status is reviewed every
Indirekt Discharge 2,386 2,508 2,731
three years. The use of rainwater, for example for cleaning pro-
Total 3,263 3,552 3,446
cesses or green area irrigation, is also repeatedly reviewed.
Waste water from our production processes and sanitary facili-
ties is either directed to public waste water treatment and dis- B.49
posal facilities in accordance with local regulations, or treated Specific water use per vehicle
and discharged directly at our own sites. We have biological GRI 303-5
wastewater treatment plants in operation at some of the sites.
▾ 2022 2021 2020
One example of our responsible wastewater management is
in 1,000 m3
our truck and bus production plant in Chennai, India. None of
its wastewater is channeled into the sewage system or into
Buses 20.8 23.4 22.8
bodies of water. The process water is thoroughly treated in the
Trucks 8.3 9.2 10.6
plant’s own wastewater treatment plant and then used in the
operating processes, in sanitary facilities and for irrigating
green areas. In addition, large volumes of rainwater are col-
lected in retention basins on site and purified by means of
water filtration systems.
Some of our plants, such as Wörth or Aksaray, have a separate
sewer system for separate drainage of sanitary wastewater
and rainwater. This promotes the natural water cycle. The sep-
aration system makes it possible to prevent the rather consid-
erable amounts of rainwater from entering the sewage treat-
ment plant with relatively low loads. As a result, wastewater
treatment can be much more thorough and energy-efficient.
Waste B.50
GRI 306-1/-2 Production-related waste according to waste type1
We attach great importance to the conscious use of resources GRI 306-3/-4/-5
and want to continuously improve the resource efficiency of
▾ 2022 2021 2020
our production processes. This is why we have set ourselves
in 1,000 t
the objective of reducing waste in production. As part of this
effort, it’s important to ensure transparency concerning the
Hazardous waste for recovery 43 36 16
waste value streams and to correctly separate the various
Hazardous waste for disposal 71 79 2
types of waste. Our production plants have implemented local
Non-hazardous waste for recovery
waste separation systems. (excluding scrap) 177 152 124
Metal scrap for recycling 211 221 191
We minimize waste such as offcuts, sand, filter materials and Non-hazardous waste for disposal 4 5 4
sludge through new or optimized production processes and Total 507 493 337
close material cycles where possible. Recovery rate in % 85 83 98
1 Excludes construction waste and soil.
We are also trying to reduce our packaging materials from the
parts transport. The main focus is on reducing the amount of
wood waste generated when disposing of pallets and transport
B.51
boxes. We test the use of returnable load carriers or other
Production-related specific waste per vehicle
packaging materials at different locations in cooperation with
GRI 306-3/-4/-5
our suppliers.
▾ 2022 2021 2020
Our Japanese Mitsubishi Fuso Truck sites investigated the use in kg
of transport packaging and were therefore already able to use
fewer and more environmentally friendly packaging in the Waste buses
reporting year. Hazardous waste for recycling 118.8 147.8 166.9
Hazardous waste for disposal 10.8 10.2 10.9
In general, we aim to prioritize disposal of our waste via recov- Non-hazardous waste for recycling
(excluding scrap) 339.2 406.9 433.9
ery processes instead of waste disposal processes and thus
Scrap for recycling 503.7 597.8 606.5
improve our recovery rate of 85%. We have set ourselves the
Non-hazardous waste for disposal 25.0 30.8 29.1
goal that our production sites reach a recovery rate of more
Total 997.5 1,193.6 1,247.2
than 95% by 2030. Our experts regularly review our disposal
methods to determine how they can be optimized. This makes
Waste trucks
it possible for us to add our waste streams each time to higher
Hazardous waste for recycling 80.5 75.6 36.4
value recycling.
Hazardous waste for disposal 142.0 177.9 3.8
Non-hazardous waste for recycling
Already in 2006, our Daimler Truck North America (“DTNA”)
(excluding scrap) 335.8 325.9 328.9
production sites began to develop a “zero waste to landfill”
Scrap for recycling 396.0 472.8 508.4
waste concept, which has been fully implemented at all DTNA
Non-hazardous waste for disposal 7.6 9.3 9.9
sites since 2018. By no longer disposing of waste in landfills,
Total 962.0 1,061.5 887.4
we are helping to reduce environmental risks such as ground-
water pollution and curbing landscape usage through the open-
ing of new landfills.
Our Mercedes-Benz do Brasil Ltda. sites have also been pursu-
ing the “zero waste to landfill” strategy for production waste
since 2021 and have implemented this since the end of 2022.
We treat and dispose of our waste worldwide in accordance
with the legal regulations. We work with licensed and regularly
certified waste disposal companies. Our production locations
are required to track the disposal of production waste to its
final destination and regularly audit facilities for the disposal of
hazardous waste.
Biodiversity For example, we have been working closely with Naturschutz-
GRI 304-2/-3 bund Deutschland (“NABU”), landscape planners and garden-
ers, for twelve years. Our Gaggenau production site is a mem-
The preservation of biodiversity is one of the global challenges ber of a pilot group of the nationwide “UnternehmensNatur”
of our time and is directly related to the fight against climate project, which has been running projects all over the country
change and the need for careful handling of the natural since 2021, which advise and support companies in the design
resources available to us, such as water. In addition to our of near-natural green spaces. The project is funded by the
activities in climate, immission, water and soil protection, we State Ministry for the Environment and implemented by NABU
are therefore also committed to preserving biodiversity in and Baden-Württemberg and environmental service provider,
around our sites. Flächenagentur Baden-Württemberg.
In 2022, we took various control measures to achieve this at The Biodiversity Index (“BIX”) developed by our Company is
our sites. The biodiversity index of lawns and green areas at available for the specific measurement of the biological value
our sites has been enhanced by further planting combinations of land at our sites and the development of individual concepts
and varieties of domestic plants and shrubs, wildflowers, wild for further development of biodiversity. The Index outlines the
herbs and the re-creation of pastures with integration of natu- environmental value of open spaces at a production site and
ral elements. Other roofs and facades have also been greened, can be used to specify suitable measures to increase biodiver-
and smaller, non-sealed or unsealed areas become microbio- sity.
topes for protected indigenous species by reducing pruning. In
addition, we have integrated insect hotels for pollinators, nest- A range of areas at our Mannheim and Gaggenau production
ing boxes for birds, peregrine hawk and bat quarters at our sites have already been recognized as UN Decade projects
sites. Regular inspections, screenings and species determina- (2011 – 2020) for biodiversity.
tions for the evaluation of the range of varieties and the status
with the aim of increasing biodiversity are carried out with the Another important aspect for us is to further increase aware-
involvement of external cooperation partners (for example, ness for biodiversity among employees through respective ini-
wild bee species determination). tiatives and campaigns (for example, through biodiversity
awareness roadshows, designing environmental experience
In an in-house recommendation for action on near-natural paths, projects for our trainees, holding family days, including
landscape design, we provide practical information, for exam- an apple collection campaign and ideas on the topic at man-
ple, for the planning of new construction activities. We also agement level).
cooperate with various nature protection organizations that
advise and support us in our activities.
EU taxonomy
Taxonomy-eligible economic activities
With the descriptions of economic activities in the delegated
Background acts, the Taxonomy Regulation specifies which activities are
An objective of the European Union’s (“EU”) action plan on generally taxonomy-eligible. As the determination of taxonomy
financing sustainable growth (“Sustainable Finance”) is to redi- eligibility for an economic activity is based on its output, it fol-
rect capital flows into sustainable investments. Against this lows that all activities, as well as the associated capital expen-
background, Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parlia- diture and operating expenditure, that serve the production or
ment and of the Council of June18, 2020 on the establishment leasing/financing of vehicles are also taxonomy-eligible.1
of a framework to facilitate sustainable investments, and Accordingly, Daimler Truck does not carry out any independent
amending EU Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 (Taxonomy Regula- activities in the context of Delegated Act (EU) 2022/1214 of
tion) entered into force in 2020. The Taxonomy Regulation is a March 9, 2022, which contains specific regulations for the
uniform and legally binding classification system stating which energy sector. Activities in connection with this Delegated Act
economic activities in the EU are considered taxonomy-aligned were analyzed. They serve the manufacturing activity due to
and thus “environmentally sustainable” with regard to six envi- their own use and are considered as immaterial for Daimler
ronmental objectives specified by the Regulation. The following Truck. Therefore, the corresponding information is not
environmental objectives are defined by the Taxonomy Regula- included.
tion:
Daimler Truck has classified the following activities as
– E nvironmental objective1 “Climate change mitigation” taxonomy-eligible in accordance with the Taxonomy Regula-
tion.
- Environmental objective 2 “Climate change adaptation”
– Activity 3.3 – Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for
- Environmental objective 3 “Sustainable use and protection transport
of water and marine resources”
– Activity 6.3 – Urban and suburban transport, road passenger
- Environmental objective 4 “Transition to a circular economy” transport
– Environmental objective 5 “Pollution prevention and control” – Activity 6.5 – Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and
light commercial vehicles
- Environmental objective 6 “Protection of biodiversity and
ecosystems” – Activity 6.6 – Freight transport services by road
Due to the relief provision exercised in the last reporting year Under Activity 3.3, Daimler Truck includes all trucks and buses
and thus the non-availability of prior-year figures from the 2021 produced by Daimler Truck, independent of their CO emis-
2
reporting year, no prior year’s values are presented in the cur- sions, as taxonomy-eligible, i.e., also all vehicles with combus-
rent reporting year. As a result, no qualitative information is tion engines. The background to this is that the Taxonomy Reg-
included to describe the changes. ulation does not contain any definition of the term “low carbon”
outside the technical screening criteria. Therefore, all vehicles
For the first two environmental objectives, descriptions of rele- can in principle be classified as eligible and the term “low car-
vant activities and technical screening criteria are already bon” is only to be applied to the assessment of taxonomy
available through delegated acts. As no specifications have yet alignment within the framework of the technical screening cri-
been published for the other four environmental objectives, teria.2 Activities 6.3, 6.5 and 6.6 include leasing/financing
they are not relevant for the Taxonomy Regulation reporting for activities relating to buses, cars and trucks, regardless of
the 2022 reporting year. whether they are own or external brands.
All consolidated Group companies are included in the calcula- Taxonomy alignment
tion of the relevant key performance indicators (“KPI”) for All activities classified as taxonomy-eligible have been checked
Daimler Truck. This does not apply to companies included in for taxonomy alignment. A significant contribution to an envi-
the consolidated financial statements using the at-equity ronmental objective is to be made by complying with the speci-
method. fied technical screening criteria defined in the EU Taxonomy
Regulation. For Daimler Truck, this applies exclusively to envi-
The turnover, capital expenditure (“CapEx”) and operating ronmental objective1 “Climate change mitigation”.
expenditure (“OpEx”) published as part of the EU taxonomy
were calculated in the same way as the consolidated financial
statements of the Daimler Truck Group and are in accordance
with the International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”)
and the interpretations of the IFRS Interpretations Committee,
as they are to be applied in the EU.
1 Cf question two in the EU Commission’s »Commission notice on the inter-
pretation of certain legal provisions of the Disclosures Delegated Act
under Article 8 of EU Taxonomy Regulation on the reporting of eligible
economic activities and assets« of October 6, 2022 (“FAQ”).
2 Cf question nine in the European Commission’s FAQ dated October 6,
2022.
Furthermore, within the framework of the technical screening Do-No-Significant-Harm
criteria, significant harm to another environmental objective Compliance with the DNSH criteria was mainly assessed on
must be excluded on the basis of the defined “do no significant the basis of checklist-based interviews for the relevant sites
harm criteria” (“DNSH”). In addition, compliance with the mini- and products.
mum safeguards with regard to human rights, including labor
rights, corruption and bribery, taxation and fair competition Evidence of compliance with the DNSH criteria for the respec-
must be ensured. An economic activity can only be regarded tive environmental objectives is provided by overarching stan-
as ecologically sustainable if all criteria are met. Daimler Truck dards, guidelines or other appropriate evidence. Compliance is
carried out the review of the technical screening criteria for checked as part of regular “environmental due diligence
the economic activities at product and/or site level. The audits”, if relevant. If individual criteria are not met, the corre-
assessment of compliance with the minimum safeguards is sponding turnover, CapEx and OpEx are not reported as taxon-
essentially based on Group-wide guidelines and their local omy-aligned.
implementation.
As stated above, Daimler Truck exclusively makes a significant
Only low-carbon vehicles according to the definition of the contribution to environmental objective1 “Climate change mit-
technical screening criteria are taken into account for the igation”. Therefore, the DNSH criteria for the other environ-
assessment of the taxonomy alignment. The EU taxonomy also mental objectives 2 to 6 must be examined. For these environ-
provides that buses pre-compliant with the Euro VI standard mental objectives, depending on the respective economic
shall be taken into account in the alignment assessment. Since activity, the following DNSH criteria must be checked:
the current Euro VI standard had already entered into force at
the time of the assessment, Daimler Truck does not consider Environmental objective 2 - “Climate change adaptation”
any pre-fulfilment and the vehicles are accordingly not taken – Activities 3.3, 6.3, 6.5, 6.6: The criterion requires the con-
into account in the alignment assessment. duction of climate risk and vulnerability analyses.1 These
were carried out at Group level. Daimler Truck incorporates
various physical climate risks into the analysis in accordance
with the requirements of the EU taxonomy. Each of the phys-
ical climate risks to be considered in accordance with the
Taxonomy Regulation was assessed on the basis of climate
scenarios. The climate projections are based on the Repre-
sentative Concentration Pathway scenarios (“RCP scenar-
ios”). For activities 6.3, 6.5 and 6.6, no risk to the perfor-
mance of the activities due to physical climate risks is
considered. The analysis therefore focuses on economic
activity 3.3 and comprises the period until 2050. Identified
risks are addressed in an adaptation plan.
Environmental objective 3 - “Sustainable use and protection of
water and marine resources”
- Activity 3.3: The criterion requires the preparation of a man-
agement plan in line with water quality and water scarcity
and in accordance with the Water Framework Directive.2 The
risks and measures relating to water quality are tracked as
part of the regular environmental due diligence audits at the
E
Daimler Truck sites (for details, see chapter Preventing
pollution). In addition, Daimler Truck also takes into account
the avoidance of water scarcity through a central risk
assessment based on recognized models and procedures.
1 Cf Appendix A of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139.
2 Cf Appendix B of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139.
Environmental objective 4 - “Transition to a circular economy” Environmental objective 6 - “Protection of biodiversity and
– Activity 3.3: The possibility of using secondary raw materials ecosystems”
and the possibility of a design for easy disassembly and - Activity 3.3: The criterion refers to Appendix D of Delegated
durability must be taken into account for the relevant vehi- Regulation (EU) 2021/2139, which defines requirements for
cles. In addition, hazardous substances must be traceable the protection of biodiversity and biodiversity-sensitive
and a waste management established at the sites. In this areas in the vicinity of the sites. As part of the environmen-
context, various Group-internal guidelines and standards tal due diligence audits, compliance with environmental per-
apply as well as, in individual cases, further suitable evi- mits is verified, among other aspects. The impact on nearby,
dence. The issue of durability is anchored, for example, in sensitive areas is also examined. If required, measures are
E
the product development process. The “Group Standard for derived (for details, see chapter Preventing pollution).
Waste Management” defines waste management across the
Group. During the assessment, the relevant technical screening crite-
ria were analyzed, interpreted, the results documented and
– Activities 6.3, 6.5 and 6.6: The criterion requires the exis- substantiated by corresponding evidence documents and cal-
tence of waste management measures, in particular at the culations.
end of a vehicle’s life cycle.
Minimum safeguards
– Activities 6.5 and 6.6: Defined quotas of recyclable or reus- As part of the audit of compliance with the minimum safe-
able materials in the products must be complied with. If the guards, the following topics were analyzed centrally:
quotas determined in accordance with the specifications
reach the required threshold values, the technical screening - Human rights, including labor rights;
criterion is considered to be fulfilled.
- Corruption and bribery;
Environmental objective 5 - “Pollution prevention and control”
- Activity 3.3: The criterion is based on Appendix C of the Del- - Taxation;
egated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139. Appendix C refers to var-
ious European regulations out of the chemicals legislation. – F air competition.
The defined substances are subject to restrictions on manu-
facture, placing on the market and use, both in terms of use No increased risk was identified and assessed in this regard
at the sites and in the products. There are difficulties in for the 2022 reporting year. For each potential risk area, pre-
interpreting the vague legal term “essential for society”. ventive and, if necessary, remedial measures are already in
place. As part of the due diligence processes, it was possible
– Activities 6.3, 6.5 and 6.6: Compliance with certain tire cate- to demonstrate that there are no convictions in any of the four
E
gories in terms of rolling resistance and rolling noise shall be subject areas (for details, see chapter Social)
demonstrated. In the reporting year, appropriate analyses
were performed for the relevant vehicles to provide the Reporting on the three performance indicators
required evidence. If information on the tires is available and Reporting on the KPIs required under the Taxonomy Regulation
the corresponding classes are adhered to, the technical for turnover, CapEx and OpEx is shown in tables  B.52,
screening criterion is considered to be fulfilled.  B.53 and  B.54. All activities are fully assigned to the envi-
ronmental objective of “climate change mitigation”. Further-
more, all activities can be clearly assigned to the respective
economic activity according to the Taxonomy Regulation. This
avoids double counting in the calculation of the overall perfor-
mance indicators.
B.52
Turnover
Template:
Proportion of turnover from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities -
disclosure covering year 2022
Substantial DNSH criteria
contribution (“Does Not Significantly Harm”)
Economic activities
)s(edoC
revonrut
etulosbA
revonrut
fo
noitroporP
noitagitim
egnahc
etamilC
noitpada
egnahc
etamilC
noitagitim
egnahc
etamilC
noitpada
egnahc
etamilC dna
retaW
secruoser
eniram
ymonoce
ralucriC noitulloP ytisrevidoiB
smetsysoce
dna
sdraugefas
muminiM
dengila-ymonoxaT
2202
,revonrut
fo
noitroporp yrogetaC
)ytivitca
gnilbane( yrogetaC
)ytivitca
lanoitisnart(
€ million % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T
A. Taxonomy-eligible activities
A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities
(Taxonomy-aligned)
Manufacture of low carbon
technologies for transport 3.3 276 0.5 100.0 0.0 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 0.5 E
Turnover of environmentally-sustainable activities
(Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1) 276 0.5 100.0 0.0 0.5
A.2 Taxonomy-Eligible but not environmentally
sustainable activities (not-
Taxonomy-aligned activities)
Manufacture of low carbon
technologies for transport 3.3 47,089 92.4
Urban and suburban transport,
road passenger transport 6.3 194 0.4
Transport by motorbikes,
passenger cars and light
commercial vehicles 6.5 85 0.2
Freight transport services by road 6.6 1,245 2.5
Turnover of Taxonomy-eligible, but not
environmentally sustainable activities
(not-Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) 48,613 95.5
Total (A.1 + A.2) 48,889 96.0
B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities
Turnover of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities (B) 2,056 4.0
Total (A + B) 50,945 100.0
B.53
Capital expenditure (CapEx)
Template:
Proportion of CapEx from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities –
disclosure covering year 2022
Substantial DNSH criteria
contribution (“Does Not Significantly Harm”)
Economic activities
)s(edoC
xEpaC
etulosbA
xEpaC
fo
noitroporP
noitagitim
egnahc
etamilC
noitpada
egnahc
etamilC
noitagitim
egnahc
etamilC
noitpada
egnahc
etamilC dna
retaW
secruoser
eniram
ymonoce
ralucriC noitulloP ytisrevidoiB
smetsysoce
dna
sdraugefas
muminiM
dengila-ymonoxaT
2202
,xEpaC
fo
noitroporp yrogetaC
)ytivitca
gnilbane( yrogetaC
)ytivitca
lanoitisnart(
€ million % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T
A. Taxonomy-eligible activities
A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities
(Taxonomy-aligned)
Manufacture of low carbon
technologies for transport 3.3 191 5.0 100.0 0.0 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 5.0 E
CapEx environmentally-sustainable activities
(Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1) 191 5.0 100.0 0.0 5.0
A.2 Taxonomy-Eligible but not environmentally
sustainable activities (non-
Taxonomy-aligned activities)
Manufacture of low carbon
technologies for transport 3.3 2,276 59.3
Urban and suburban transport,
road passenger transport 6.3 38 1.0
Transport by motorbikes,
passenger cars and light
commercial vehicles 6.5 8 0.2
Freight transport services by road 6.6 1,311 34.2
CapEx of Taxonomy-eligible, but not
environmentally sustainable activities
(not-Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) 3,633 94.7
Total (A.1 + A.2) 3,824 99.7
B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities
CapEx Taxonomy-non-eligible activities (B) 10 0.3
Total (A + B) 3,834 100.0
B.54
Operating expenditure (OpEx)
Template:
Proportion of OpEx from products or services associated with Taxonomy-aligned economic activities -
disclosure covering year 2022
Substantial DNSH criteria
contribution (“Does Not Significantly Harm”)
Economic activities
)s(edoC
xEpO
etulosbA
xEpO
fo
noitroporP
noitagitim
egnahc
etamilC
noitpada
egnahc
etamilC
noitagitim
egnahc
etamilC
noitpada
egnahc
etamilC dna
retaW
secruoser
eniram
ymonoce
ralucriC noitulloP ytisrevidoiB
smetsysoce
dna
sdraugefas
muminiM
dengila-ymonoxaT
2202
,xEpO
fo
noitroporp yrogetaC
)ytivitca
gnilbane( yrogetaC
)ytivitca
lanoitisnart(
€ million % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % E T
A. Taxonomy-eligible economic activities
A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities
(taxonomy-aligned)
Manufacture of low carbon
technologies for transport 3.3 136 6.5 100.0 0.0 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 6.5 E
OpEx of environmentally-sustainable activities
(Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1) 136 6.5 100.0 0.0 6.5
A.2 Taxonomy-Eligible but not environmentally
sustainable activities (not-
Taxonomy-aligned activities)
Manufacture of low carbon
technologies for transport 3.3 1,931 92.8
Urban and suburban transport,
road passenger transport 6.3 0 0.0
Transport by motorbikes,
passenger cars and light
commercial vehicles 6.5 0 0.0
Freight transport services by road 6.6 0 0.0
OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible but not
environmentally sustainable activities
(not-Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2) 1,931 92.8
Total (A.1 + A.2) 2,067 99.3
B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities
OpEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible activities (B) 15 0.7
Total (A + B) 2,082 100.0
Turnover In the 2022 reporting year, the numerator consists of the
The proportion of taxonomy-eligible and taxonomy-aligned f ollowing components:
activities of the total turnover in the reporting year shall be
determined in accordance with the Taxonomy Regulation. The 1. CapEx A: Capital expenditure associated with taxono-
KPI for turnover is the ratio of taxonomy-eligible/ my-aligned economic activities. This also includes capital
taxonomy- aligned turnover to the total Group turnover for the expenditure for the expansion of taxonomy-aligned eco-
reporting year. nomic activities that were completed in the 2022 reporting
year. €26 million was attributable to CapEx A in the 2022
Overall, the denominator takes into account all turnover of the reporting year.
Daimler Truck Group. The turnover reported in the Consoli-
dated Income Statement amounted to €50,945 million in the 2. CapEx B: Investments for the expansion of taxonomy-aligned
E
2022 reporting year (see Note 5 of the Notes to the Con- economic activities that were not completed in the reporting
solidated Financial Statements). year 2022. In relation to these investments, a so-called
“CapEx plan” is to be published. The Capex-plan covers five
To determine the numerator, the turnover was queried as to years and the included investments can be exclusively
whether it was generated in connection with the production, assigned to activity 3.3.
leasing or financing of vehicles (taxonomy-eligible). Turnover The capitalized research and development costs included
not related to vehicle production or leasing/financing has been relate to the development of Battery Electric Vehicles
excluded. (“BEV”) and Fuel Cell Electric Vehicles (“FCEV”). Important
Turnover is then assessed to determine whether it meets the milestones of the CapEx plan, such as the completion of
technical screening criteria for the respective activity. major development projects, are regularly published on the
Daimler Truck Group’s website.
If turnover related to the activities cannot be clearly assigned The investments within category “CapEx B” amount to
to the taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned proportion, they €165 million in the reporting year 2022. The CapEx plan
are generally assigned using an allocation key, for example for includes expenditures in a range of €1,600 million to
turnover in connection with spare parts and services. The base €1,750 million that are planned for the period 2023 to 2027.
for the allocation of turnover from the sale of spare parts that
cannot be clearly assigned are historical sales figures. Turn- Where capital expenditure could not be clearly determined as
over from service contracts that cannot be clearly assigned is taxonomy-eligible or taxonomy-aligned, generally, an alloca-
similarly allocated. tion based on future sales figures has been made. The basis is
the approved business plan.
In the 2022 reporting year, €276 million or 0.5% of the turnover
was classified as taxonomy-aligned and €48,613 million or The proportion of the CapEx KPI reported as taxonomy-aligned
95.5% as taxonomy-eligible. consists of additions to property, plant and equipment includ-
ing right of use assets (€71 million) and additions to internally
Capital expenditure generated intangible assets (€120 million). In the 2022 report-
The KPI for CapEx is the ratio of taxonomy-eligible/taxono- ing year, there were no taxonomy-aligned additions from acqui-
my-aligned capital expenditure to total capital expenditure in sitions due to business combinations.
accordance with the Taxonomy Regulation for the reporting
year. The total amount of investments can be reconciled to the
E
Group additions in the reporting year (see Note11,
E E
For the denominator, all additions to intangible assets and Note12 and Note13 of the Notes to the Consolidated
property, plant and equipment, equipment on operating leases, Financial Statements).
as well as additions to right-of-use assets in accordance with
IFRS16, including additions to the aforementioned assets in In the 2022 reporting year, €191 million or 5.0% of the capital
the context of business combinations, are included. Acquired expenditure was classified as taxonomy-aligned and
goodwill is not included. €3,633 million or 94.7% as taxonomy-eligible.
To determine the numerator, the investments are analyzed to
identify whether the investments are related to the production
or leasing/financing of vehicles. These taxonomy-eligible invest-
ments are further examined to determine whether they meet
the technical screening criteria associated with the activity.
Operating expenditure
The KPI for operating expenditure is the ratio of taxonomy-eli-
gible/taxonomy-aligned operating expenditure to the relevant
direct, non-capitalized costs (research and development, build-
ing renovation measures, short-term lease, maintenance and
repair) in the reporting year.
The total operating expenditure to be included in the denomi-
nator comprise the volume pursuant to Appendix1 of the Dele-
gated Act on Article 8 of the Taxonomy Regulation disclosure
requirements. For determining the numerator, operating
expenditures are assessed according to whether they are
related to the production or leasing/financing of vehicles (tax-
onomy-eligible).
Furthermore, they are assessed for the fulfilment of the techni-
cal screening criteria associated with the activity. In the
reporting year 2022, the following OpEx components are
included in the numerator:
1. OpEx A: Operating expenditure associated with assets or
processes that are part of taxonomy-aligned economic activ-
ities. These amounted to €44 million in the reporting year
2022.
2. OpEx B: Operating expenditure relating to the expansion of
taxonomy-aligned activities. In relation to these expendi
tures, an “Opex-Plan” needs to be published. The OpEx plan
is seen as part of the CapEx plan and fulfils the criteria set
out there. Expenditures assigned to OpEx B amount to
€92 million. The OpEx plan includes expenditures in a range
of €2,400 million to €2,600 million which are planned for
the period 2023 to 2027.
In the case that operating expenditure cannot be clearly deter-
mined as taxonomy-aligned or taxonomy-eligible, sales-based
allocation keys are applied in principle. For research and devel-
opment expenditures that cannot be directly allocated, these
are generally based on the approved business plan. For other
operating expenditure that cannot be directly allocated, the
allocation keys are generally based on actual values.
In the 2022 reporting year, €136 million or 6.5% of operating
expenditure was classified as taxonomy-aligned and
€1,931 million or 92.8% as taxonomy-eligible.
SOCIAL
We take responsibility for society and our
employees. Where we can make a contribution
to change something for the better, we do it.
Sustainability at Daimler Truck
Social
As a global commercial vehicle manufacturer, we have great employees’ health, occupational safety and well-being are
influence on our employees, people affected by our corporate safeguarded. Our trucks and buses are an important part of
actions as well as on the society in which we live. For us, our the everyday life of many people. For this reason, traffic safety
vision of “Leading Sustainable Transportation” means helping and the protection of all road users are therefore our top prior-
to shape the transport of tomorrow responsibly. Our employ- ities. A sense of responsibility and sustainability also affects
ees are an important foundation for this. With their ideas, talents the entire value chain – and we are rising to the growing chal-
and skills, they play a crucial role in shaping our company – lenges. We cooperate with our suppliers and commit them to
and help us to be prepared for the future. We strive to be a working with us to ensure respect for the rights of all the peo-
great place to work and offer a work environment where our ple we influence through our operations.
B.55
Overview Social
Ambitions Achievements
Our People - In the financial year 2022, 31.3% of our relevant sites were covered by
documented occupational health and safety certificates.
We strive to be an employer of choice, and - Implementation of the Group Works Agreement on Mental Health to protect
we foster a culture of diversity, equity and our employees and promote health and well-being.
inclusion – leading to a sense of belonging - Hybrid working time models introduced worldwide to promote flexible
across all levels and regions. working time models.
- New corporate culture “Impact Culture” and new values of “Great Leader-
ship Behavior” rolled out.
- The “Inclusion in Mind!” leadership training far exceeded the target of 85%
with a participation rate of more than 97.5%.
- LinkedIn training rolled out worldwide for all employees.
Human Rights - Adaptation of the Human Rights CMS to the requirements from the German
Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (“SCDDA”).
We are strongly committed to respect and - Setting up an expert training course on human rights.
support human rights and we expect the - Appointment of Chief Legal & Compliance Officer as Human Rights Officer.
same from our business partners throughout - Declaration of principle was adapted to the requirements of Daimler Truck
the value chain. after the spin-off.
- Raising awareness of our suppliers in cooperation with Drive Sustainability.
- From the year 2023, reports and complaints of our direct and indirect suppli-
ers can be submitted via the reporting channel of our whistleblower system
Business Practices Office.
- Updating our social responsibility and environmental policy conditions.
- Piloting of supplier due diligence using an IT system.
Traffic Safety - Introducing effective safety systems with the objective of equipping at least
75% of the operating vehicles in our core markets with a safety system in
We purpose Vision Zero, and strive for zero 2025 and at least 80% of our delivered vehicles with a safety system in 2030.
accidents. - Freightliner Cascadia: Active turning assistant, active driving assistant 2
with emergency stop function introduced.
- Tour buses: Active driving assistant introduced.
- Actros China: Active safety package and active driving assistant introduced.
- Daimler Truck Cyber Security Management System in accordance to
u pcoming regulations.
- Raising public awareness of traffic safety, for example through driver
training, educational programs and roadshows.
Traffic safety
Organization and responsibilities
GRI 3-3, 416-1 SDG 3,11
The control and regulation system for Traffic Safety includes all
relevant management levels. The highest level of responsibility
According to the World Health Organization (“WHO”), traffic for traffic safety lies with the Board of Management and Cor-
accidents lead to1.3 million deaths worldwide every year and porate Sustainability Board (“CSB”), represented by the Board
are the most common cause of death among children and of Management for Truck Technology Trucks & Buses. The Sus-
young adults aged 5–29 years. According to WHO estimates, tainability Steering Committee (“SSC”) is represented by the
13 million traffic-related deaths and 500 million traffic-related Head of Global Software & Electronics Product Development,
injuries could occur in the next ten years if decisive action is who reports to the Board of Management for Truck Technology
not taken. At the same time, traffic accidents and their conse- Trucks & Buses on the objective of traffic safety. Within the
quences, for example on the flow of goods, also have an eco- Social Working Group, the topic of traffic safety is strategically
nomic impact. Traffic safety can contribute to protecting the managed throughout the Group, involving the operating seg-
lives and integrity of road users as well as the safety of the ments and relevant cross-departmental functions.
transport of economic goods. For us, traffic safety therefore
means, in particular, assuming social and economic responsi- Accident research
bility. Traffic safety is thus an essential topic of our sustainable
business strategy. Research about accidents in the area of commercial vehicles
has played a key role at Daimler Truck for 50 years now when it
Zero traffic fatalities by 2050 — that is the target of “Vision comes to improving the active and passive safety of our vehi-
Zero”. In cooperation with WHO, the United Nations imple- cles. Aspects of occupant and partner protection go hand in
mented the resolution on “Improving global road safety” in hand. Detailed accident analyses are carried out on a regular
2020 and announced the “Decade of Action for Road Safety” basis and the occurrence of real accidents involving heavy
(2021–2030). The goal is to reduce road fatalities and injuries commercial vehicles is systematically recorded and evaluated.
by 50% by 2030. Traffic safety in the commercial vehicle sector has made con-
siderable progress in recent decades as a result of the
Based upon this we want to underline our current and future improvements achieved from accident research. Based on this
ambitions for traffic safety. As a truck and bus manufacturer, extensive and long-standing knowledge base, we were able to
we would like to make our contribution to “Vision Zero”. This develop many of our technical safety solutions in a targeted
requires a comprehensive traffic safety concept and our aim is manner and launch them on the market early on before there
to make traffic safer for all involved by further developing exist- were legal regulations for them, such as Emergency Brake
ing safety systems and new ones. Assist or Turn Assist.
Further information on the subject of traffic safety can be Specific accident data about trucks with combustion engines
w
found on our Website. has also helped to develop safety measures for the first gener-
ation of our vehicles with alternative drives (battery-electric
and hydrogen-based). The focus here is, for example, on the
targeted positioning, design, shielding and shutdown of
high-voltage components, batteries and accumulators. In this
context, the electrical charging and filling processes with tech-
nical gases were also included in the considerations.
Innovations for greater safety
The development of modern and high-performance safety sys-
tems requires a high-performance innovation process. Only
the discovery and application of new technologies enable the
further development of safety systems at the highest level. The
global advanced development of Daimler Truck plays a key role
in this. With its research network, structured innovation and
technology management and the ability to prepare applica-
tions in prototypes for series use, Daimler Truck promotes the
power of innovation in the area of traffic safety, among other
aspects.
The principle of “integral security” We take all this into account with our Product Compliance
Management System (“PCMS”) and our organization for Func-
When developing our vehicles, we follow the holistic concept of tional Safety (“FuSa”) and Cyber Security Management System
integral safety and distinguish between four phases: Driving (“CSMS”). Product compliance is about ensuring that we com-
assistance, prepare for the possible accident, protect in the ply with all applicable laws, standards and regulatory require-
event of an accident and provide help after an accident. ments as early as the development of our safety systems. With
our PCMS, we aim to ensure the legal and regulatory confor-
Our safety measures establish a bridge between active and mity of our products. Further information on our PCMS can be
E
passive safety within these four phases — between accident found in Compliance.
prevention (phases1 and 2) and protection of the occupants
when an accident occurs (phases 3 and 4): Measures and implementations
– Phase1: Safe driving – Assistance systems that can make Our focus is on providing systems to avoid driving errors. A
driving safer, assist drivers, and can help to prevent acci- positive contribution to preventing accident situations can be
dents. expected when we bring new systems to the market or
broaden the application of existing systems. In 2022, the mea-
– Phase 2: In the event of danger – Safety assistance sys- sures focused on the distribution of existing systems in mar-
tems that can warn, assist, and engage automatically, as kets, brands and models:
well as protection systems that can already be activated in
the pre-accident phase. - The active turning assistant was introduced in the Freight-
liner Cascadia for the American market.
– Phase 3: In the event of an accident – Protection systems
that can intelligently protect all vehicle occupants as – The Actros Safety Package was introduced to the eActros
required in the given situation. and the Chinese market and presented at a world premiere
for the FUSO eCanter.
– Phase 4: After an accident – Systems that can help after
an accident. - Active Drive Assist was introduced in the Mercedes-Benz
and Setra touring coaches and – enhanced with an emer-
Product quality & product safety gency stop function – in the Freightliner Cascadia for the
American market.
In addition to the optimum function of the assistance systems,
the development process of Daimler Truck is also about com-
plying with all valid regulations (product safety), achieving a
safe state (functional safety) and being as resistant as possible
to external attacks on the vehicle network (cyber security).
B.56
Implementations 2022
Active Turning Assistant for the Active Drive Assist World premiere of
Freightliner Cascadia for touring coaches the next-generation
eCanter with new
Safety features
Q1 2022 Q2 2022 Q3 2022 Q4 2022
Active Drive Assist 2 with
emergency stop function for Active Safety eActros Active Safety
the Freightliner Cascadia Soft-launch Actros China
Functional safety Safety systems
Vehicles are becoming increasingly complex, especially due to Our contribution to greater traffic safety is the development
increasingly electronic and software components. In order for and offering of high-performance assistance systems, passive
a manufacturer to counter risks associated with the increasing safety measures, the implementation of active safety systems,
complexity of modern vehicles, it is important to pay attention as well as support during rescue and recovery. Our services
to functional safety, i.e., the correct functioning of electrical and training also contribute to safety. With autonomous driving,
and electronic (E/E) systems. The technical standard ISO we expect a further increase in traffic safety as the approval of
26262, which relates to E/E-systems in road vehicles, is pio- autonomous driving systems is tied to strict safety require-
neering in this context. In spite of increasing technical com- ments.
plexity, we consider the orientation towards ISO 26262 and the
implementation of corresponding requirements and processes Effective safety systems deliver their societal benefits when
to be central in ensuring a high level of safety for our vehicles. they are widely used in transport. We have therefore set our-
Therefore ISO 26262 has a significant impact on our develop- selves the target of having at least 75% of our vehicles deliv-
ment processes. ered in our core markets in 2025 and at least 80% in 2030 to
be equipped with a safety system that exceeds the respective
Cyber Security legal requirement in terms of performance and scope of appli-
cation.
Our vehicle products are becoming increasingly complex in
their functions and available services, such as data services. Active safety and assistance systems
The requirements and expectations of customers and, where Active safety systems are particularly important in trucks and
applicable, their customers with regard to our products and buses. Especially with vehicles of this size and severity, it is
possible interactions are constantly increasing. We have intro- important to actively avoid accidents, as the risk of a serious
duced a Cyber Security Management System for our vehicle accident outcome is high. In order to achieve this, we develop
range to ensure that these solutions also meet current security new safety systems in regular development cycles with which
requirements and that incidents can be dealt with and resolved we can protect and assist drivers in their day-to-day work. In
quickly. Trucks and buses are supported throughout their life addition to well-known protection systems, this also includes
cycle from the perspective of cyber security in vehicles. technical innovations. We are currently working on the next
package, which is planned for 2023.
One of the driving forces behind this are regulations such as
the UN R-155 “»Cyber security und cyber security manage- Much of what is common in our industry today was invented by
ment system”, which is mandatory within European regulation Daimler Truck and introduced to the market. We offer a Brake
EU 2018/858 beginning 2024. In addition industry standards Assist (Active Brake Assist, Preventive Brake Assist) for our
that accompany the implementation of those regulations (ISO heavy trucks and touring coaches, which can detect pedestri-
21434 “Road vehicles – Cybersecurity engineering”). The pro- ans within the system limits and react to them. Additionally we
cesses of the management system are already being imple- were have the Sideguard Assist, a system that reduces the
mented in Europe and undergo the certification process for EU consequences of accidents and even completely prevents acci-
2018/858. dents involving cyclists.
In addition to active safety systems, our assistance systems
also help drivers in their work and thus can contribute to pre-
venting accidents. With these systems, our goal is to relieve
the driver, raise their alertness, prevent fatigue and encourage
an adapted driving style, for example through prediction, auto-
mation, traffic sign recognition, enhanced all-round visibility
and smart light control.
Passive safety Autonomous driving
Passive safety systems provide protection for vehicle occu- Daimler Truck is considered as one of the leading truck manu-
pants and other parties involved in an accident if a collision facturers in the development of autonomous trucks (“SAE
can no longer be prevented in time. Level 4”) with safety-relevant redundant driving systems. The
aim is to bring autonomous trucks onto the road in series pro-
In addition to active restraint systems such as the driver’s air- duction by the end of the decade in the US.
bag and seat belts with tensioners, a coordinated crash con-
cept based on driver’s cabs with a high level of rigidity, com- Autonomous driving is associated with high safety require-
bined with the activation of energy-absorbing structures in the ments for legal admission. Thus driver assistance systems and
front section plays a fundamental role at Daimler Truck. safety systems are important drivers for making autonomous
driving possible in the future and have the potential to make
The focus is also on minimizing indirect risk of injury. This traffic safer in the future. In addition, unlike humans autono-
includes the design and configuration of components of the mous systems are more resilient to human risk factors such as
cab interior, fire protection and, if necessary, the deactivation tiredness or inattentiveness and therefore can help reducing
of high-voltage systems in vehicles with alternative drives. the risk of an accident. At the same time, autonomous trucks
can enhance our customers’ business and help society cope
The implementation in our vehicles is based on our findings with the growing volume of freight, especially in times of driver
from accident research and product monitoring. shortages. In addition, autonomous trucks enable increased
transport performance, as long-haul trucks can basically drive
Rescue and recovery all the way through. For these key reasons, we continue to
Another important part of our work is informing rescue forces drive forward the development of this technology.
and recovery services in a targeted way, for example through
rescue guidelines, rescue sheets and towing brochures. The autonomous-ready Cascadia with redundant functions is
Detailed knowledge of our vehicles and their safety systems based on our flagship model of the Daimler Truck brand,
help rescue services get to injured persons faster and can Freightliner. Critical systems, such as steering and braking, are
therefore help save lives. available as a back-up in two versions and are continuously
monitored by the vehicle. In the event of malfunctions or
Examples of supporting technical functions in vehicles are the errors, the newly developed redundant systems can safely
automatic activation of the hazard warning lights and auto- control the truck. Freightliner’s autonomous-ready Cascadia is
matic unlocking of the central locking system after an accident thus suitable for integrating autonomous software, hardware
has been identified. Various measures contribute to increasing and computing systems. Due to the system redundancy, the
the safety of rescue services, such as high-voltage rescue dis- autonomously driving truck can make a contribution to improv-
connection points, automatic impact detection and Hochvolt ing traffic safety, which is an important step on the road to
deactivation. accident-free driving.
Further information on rescue and recovery can be found on Since acquiring a majority shareholding in TORC Robotics, Inc.
w
our Website. (“TORC”) in 2019, we have made progress in autonomous driv-
ing with our subsidiary. For example, we showcased that driv-
ing on US motorways including driving on and off as well as
switching lanes is possible. TORC is now taking the next step
by working with leading U.S. logistics companies to bring
autonomous trucks into real-world use. For example, in the
2022 reporting year, TORC created the Torc Autonomous Advi-
sory Council (“TAAC”) with key logistics industry players to
integrate extensive industry expertise into its development
process. The members of the committee include Schneider,
Covenant Logistics, Penske Truck Leasing, Ryder System, Inc.,
C.H. Robinson and Baton as well as Daimler Truck North Amer-
ica LLC as a vehicle manufacturer.
Significant progress in the development of autonomous trucks
and first practical application.
Human rights
Digitalization & services
To provide our customers with the best possible support, we GRI 2-23/-24, 3-3, 406, 407, 408, 409, 414 SDG 4, 8, 17
also offer modern services, which can contribute to traffic
safety. The prerequisite for this is digitalization in the vehicle.
Digitalization mainly deals with the connectivity of vehicles and Our ambition is to be strongly committed to respect and sup-
the provision of data from the vehicle for smart digital services port human rights and we also expect this from our business
and customized solutions for our customers. partners throughout the value chain. Daimler Truck AG, as part
of the former Daimler AG, was a founding member of the
A forward-looking driving style, compliance with driving and United Nations “Global Compact”. Therefore, we committed
rest periods as well as avoiding speeding are some examples ourselves to support human rights, respect the rights of
where our fleet management system services provide targeted employees and their representations of interests, and protect-
assistance. With our Mercedes-Benz Uptime and Detroit Con- ing the environment. We continue to participate in the UN
nect services, we detect errors and accident risks on roads. A Global Compact and are committed to the United Nations
fully automatic telediagnostics system continuously checks (“UN”) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights as
the status of the vehicle systems. Within seconds, the data is well as the National Action Plan for Business and Human
interpreted and specific recommendations for action are made Rights of the German Federal Government. We place particular
available. In this way, for example, a possible breakdown can importance to the rights of the International Bill of Human
be avoided or, in the event of a critical condition (for example, Rights and the core labor standards of the “International Labor
leakage in the high-pressure circuit of the fuel supply), a rec- Organization” (“ILO”) and we are committed to preventing
ommendation for action can be made for necessary measures human rights violations from occurring with regard to our own
(for example, a repair). employees and our business partners – in particular our direct
suppliers. The aim is to respect and support human rights as
Driver training and awareness-raising measures well as to implement needed measures and processes to fulfill
our due diligence obligations.
We raise public awareness of traffic safety – for example
through driver training, educational programs and roadshows– We confirm our commitment in our Declaration of Principles on
and provide information about safety technologies and Social Responsibility and Human Rights. The declaration of
i nnovations. Principles forms the basis for the perception of our social
responsibility and summarizes our involvement with human
Daimler Truck offers a wide range of training options for truck rights. It supplements our obligation to respect human rights
and bus drivers. The Mercedes-Benz Trucks training organiza- from our Code of Conduct. With regard to our own business
tion covers more than 50 countries, where certified trainers units, we have also embedded the requirements for respecting
teach customers how to operate our vehicles. We also provide and supporting human rights in internal policies, such as our
training for our electric vehicles and their specific requirements. policy on occupational health and safety. Our requirements for
In addition to other topics – such as fuel efficiency, downtime business partners to respect internationally recognized human
and operating costs – the training aims to increase traffic rights are defined in our Business Partner Standards.
safety. Among other aspects, drivers should be instructed to
fully exploit the safety potential of our technologies. Further information on the policy statement and code of
w
conduct can be found on our Website.
Organization and responsibility The Human Rights CMS includes basic principles and mea-
sures to promote compliant conduct. It relates to the Group
The Sustainability Management & Human Rights Compliance companies and majority shareholdings as well as to our value
department in the Legal & Compliance unit is responsible for chain. Further information on our Human Rights CMS can be
E
the development and steering of the Human Rights Compli- found in Compliance.
ance Management System, which is a systematic approach to
fulfilling human rights due diligence obligations in the Group At the end of 2021, all Group companies and majority share-
companies and majority shareholdings, as well as along our holdings of Daimler Truck worldwide were classified based on
value chain. It is also responsible for providing legal advice on a systematic risk analysis. This is the first time that a human
human rights issues within the Group. rights risk assessment has been carried out in order to identify
and minimize potential risks in line with our human rights due
Strategic developments as well as cross-functional and inter- diligence obligations. Defined packages of measures were then
national alignments with regard to human rights are discussed assigned to the units concerned based on the individual risk
on a regular basis in the Sustainability Steering Committee classification. They address the identified action areas of
and the Corporate Sustainability Board and reported to the Labor, Security & Diversity Practices, and Local Circumstances
Supervisory Board. & Civil Interaction and establish clear responsibilities for imple-
menting the measures, such as mandatory diversity training,
The Chief Legal and Compliance Officer was appointed Human background checks and frameworks for working by and with
Rights Officer in the reporting year. He reports directly to the security forces, or the creation of “diversity representative”
Chairman of the Board of Management of Daimler Truck and role.
Daimler Truck Holding AG and is responsible for monitoring our
human rights risk management. He also heads the SSC and In the reporting year, the topics for the 2023 risk analysis were
chairs the Compliance Board. also expanded to include the human rights and environmental
aspects from the “SCDDA”. It is planned to query the topic
areas for each unit in the year 2023 as part of an individual risk
analysis and to address them through appropriate measures.
The annual evaluation, including the effectiveness review, will
be carried out analogously to the other compliance fields start-
ing in 2023 for implementation.
Raising awareness of human rights
We raise awareness among our employees with various inter-
nal trainings on human rights to give them a basic understand-
ing of the contents of corporate due diligence and social
responsibility. To this end, human rights issues in the respec-
tive working environment were communicated to particularly
relevant departments, such as purchasing and sales, as part of
a specific web-based training course. In addition, the “Human
We confirm our commitment to respect and support human Rights Compliance” expert module was developed in the
rights in our policy statement on social responsibility and reporting year and will be rolled out globally on a target
group-specific and mandatory basis in 2023. The aim is to
human rights.
highlight the relevance of the topic in everyday working life.
Our approach in the Group companies and
majority shareholdings
Daimler Truck has already set up a Human Rights Compliance
Management System (“Human Rights CMS”) at the end of
2021. With our Human Rights CMS, we aim to fulfill our human
rights due diligence obligations based on requirements from
internationally recognized standards and applicable laws - for
example, in accordance with the requirements of the German
Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (“SCDDA”), which will apply
from 2023.
Our approach in the supply chain Suppliers of production material
GRI 407-1, 408-1, 409-1, 414-1 All new suppliers of production material are checked on site for
sustainability criteria before being commissioned. These
A global network of suppliers who provide us for example with on-site checks are also performed for existing suppliers
innovative raw materials, components, materials and services, depending on the location or product group. During this review,
contributes to our corporate success. Our goal is to ensure questions are asked about social standards, including working
that our partners along the supply chain also comply with hours, remuneration, occupational safety, freedom of choice of
social and environmental standards and thus supports our sus- employment and freedom of association. Such reviews are
tainability efforts. In order to fulfill our due diligence obliga- even more thorough in countries with a high level of risk in
tions in the supply chain, we rely on a concept of binding relation to human rights and include a review of child labor
requirements and test instruments, as well as information and risks as an integral element.
qualification measures for suppliers. This concept is also an
integral part of our Human Rights CMS. To evaluate the sustainability performance of our suppliers of
production material, we also rely on proven standard tools,
Expectations for our suppliers such as the Sustainability Assessment Questionnaire (“SAQ”)
w
We are committed to responsible sourcing of production and of our European sustainability initiative Drive Sustainability.
non-production material and services, and we reject child In addition to environmental aspects, social criteria such as
labor, forced labor, modern slavery as well as other violations human rights policies, a risk management system for human
w
of human rights. In our Business Partner Standards we rights and social issues, employee training, occupational
define our requirements for our business partners in terms of health and safety policies and systems, responsible sourcing
respect for and support of human rights, good working condi- of raw material and sustainability-oriented supplier manage-
tions, environmental protection, integrity and compliance with ment are assessed and integrated into an overall assessment
legal requirements. We require our business partners – in par- of sustainability performance. The rating of supplier locations
ticular our direct suppliers – to recognize these sustainability derived from this is used as a mandatory criterion in opera-
standards and to communicate and pass them on to their tional purchasing for new contract awards above a defined
employees and to their upstream value chain. We also expect order value in production material purchasing.
our business partners to verify compliance with these stan-
dards. This is an important prerequisite for successful cooper- Suppliers of non-production material
ation. Detailed regulations on these standards and require- We also hold our suppliers of non-production material, in par-
ments are included in our contractual terms and conditions on ticular service providers, responsible for respecting human
social responsibility and environmental protection. rights and other sustainability aspects. In the year under
review, we began to optimize a previously used questionnaire
Risk management to further identify human rights risks in certain product groups
We rely on a wide range of measures and concepts to comply and industries. Throughout the reporting year, all new suppli-
with our due diligence obligations. This includes screenings for ers of non-production material in risk countries and for critical
direct suppliers of production and non-production material as product groups were part of a due diligence-review. To date, 27
well as audits, risk-based due diligence analyses and qualifica- product groups and industries, which are potentially critical
tion modules for suppliers. With these tools, we aim to from a human rights perspective have been identified on the
increase transparency in the supply chain and ensure that basis of a preliminary risk analysis.
internationally recognized human rights, other social standards
and environmental requirements are respected. Our purchas- Systematic risk analysis
ing departments play a central role in this for production and Existing direct suppliers of production material and non-pro-
non-production material, including services. duction material undergo an annual review for human rights
risks using external databases for certain human rights risks
and violations of the law in order to be able to investigate them
in a follow-up process. The supplier risk assessment was
revised in the reporting year and supplemented with aspects
from the requirements of the SCDDA. By means of an IT sys-
tem, which was piloted in the reporting year and will be rolled
out the year 2023, risks for all suppliers will be identified and
assessed regularly, systematically and holistically.
How we handle critical raw materials Raising awareness and providing information
In the assessment of human rights risks along the supply chain to our suppliers
of production material, special attention is paid to critical raw In order to raise awareness of human rights issues among our
materials. In prior years, critical raw materials were identified business partners, we provide the Compliance Awareness
w
on the basis of a preliminary risk analysis and prioritized with Module on our Website. As part of our membership in the
regard to their relevance in truck and bus production. These European sustainability initiative of the automotive industry
are integrated into the risk analysis as risk indicators. “Drive Sustainability,” we raised awareness of sustainability
issues, particularly human rights issues, among relevant sup-
We continue to use international standards and initiatives for pliers of production material in other focus countries (Mexico,
conflict minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold). As a mem- USA, Germany) by means of (web-based) training courses in
ber of the Responsible Minerals Initiative (“RMI”), we support this reporting year.
their actions for a responsible raw material supply chain, espe-
cially from countries with a high risk of violations of human Tip-offs and suspected cases
rights.
Employees and external whistleblowers worldwide can use the
In order to promote the responsible handling of lithium as a BPO whistleblowing system to submit reports of suspected
raw material in Chile, we have been involved in the “Responsi- violations of rules and laws, including human rights violations,
ble Lithium Partnership” since 2021 under the umbrella of the at the Daimler Truck division. In the reporting year, a total of
former Daimler AG, which is coordinated by the German two suspected cases involving human rights violations were
Agency for International Cooperation (“GIZ”). Even after the reported in the “major risk” category. Further information can
E
demerger from the former Daimler AG, we continue to partici- be found in Reporting of rule violations via the BPO whis-
pate as a partner. The aim of the initiative is to foster a dialog tleblower system.
between local stakeholders based on scientific facts, review-
ing them and seeking solutions through a participation process. In addition, as part of the adaptation of the Human Rights CMS
in the reporting year, we began to revise access and the corre-
sponding complaints process for notifications and complaints
regarding violations of human rights and environmental obliga-
tions by our direct and indirect suppliers. From 2023, corre-
sponding tip-offs and complaints can also be submitted via the
reporting channels of our whistleblowing system BPO.
In the reporting year, a total of one suspected case of human
rights violations along our supply chain was received. In these
cases, the competent investigation unit in Purchasing exam-
ines which measures are suitable in each individual case in
order to investigate a suspicion appropriately. As a rule, the
measures are directed at our direct suppliers, with the aim of
jointly developing a concept to end and minimize any griev-
ances.
Our people
Organization and responsibility
GRI 2-7/-8, 3-3 SDG 4, 5, 8, 10, 16
The organization and responsibility is based on a global human
resources (“HR”) structure. The HR-unit consists of various
Over100,000 employees worldwide drive our Group forward functions that work along the entire HR-value chain and at all
with their skills, ideas and commitment. They are a key factor Daimler Truck locations. HR-business partners advise and sup-
in mastering the ongoing difficult general conditions in the port employees, including managers, on all relevant, strategic
reporting year 2022. Among other aspects, the COVID-19 pan- HR-topics and implement them as a team. We are present in
demic and the Russia-Ukraine war meant that we were repeat- the segment structures and each segment has its own HR-re-
edly faced with challenging tasks and had to respond at short sponsibility. In addition, cross-cutting topics such as human
notice. Our employees are a core success factor of our Group. resources development, labor policy and remuneration are
bundled in Centers of Competences (“CoC”) with a global gov-
ernance function. The Head of the People and Organization
B.57 Development CoC is represented in the SSC. In order to
Employees by segments ensure an ongoing dialog between the individual functions and
GRI 2-7 the best possible decision-making in the interests of the entire
Group, the Operations Committee (“OpCom”) as the highest
▾2022 20211
HR-decision-making body meets on a regular basis. In order to
Mercedes-Benz Trucks 40,884 40,327
ensure that HR-functions are closely involved in the opera-
thereof female 4,721 4,508
tional business, the HR-Business Partners are involved in the
Trucks North America 28,227 25,930
management bodies of their areas of responsibility.
thereof female 5,214 4,843
Trucks Asia 16,214 15,865
thereof female 1,657 1,601
Daimler Buses 15,184 14,861
thereof female 1,702 1,564
Financial Services 1,770 1,245
thereof female 837 601
Central Functions and Services 2,450 1,622
thereof female 968 611
Total 104,729 99,849
thereof female 15,097 13,727
1 New reporting line item (no previous year’s values available).
Future-oriented human resources strategy
We want to be an attractive employer and shape a future-ori-
ented human resources strategy. We have focused on the fur-
ther development of our diverse and inclusive corporate cul-
ture, especially since our start as an independent company
after the demerger of the former Daimler AG in 2021.
E
A material field of action according to our Materiality anal-
ysis is maintaining the health, occupational health and safety
and well-being of our employees. As future-oriented employer
we want to offer a fair remuneration system and far-reaching
flexible working time models that promote the compatibility of
work and family as well as a good work-life balance. We also
support our employees with a wide range of qualification pro-
grams and flexible learning methods in order to keep up with
the times and develop further. We want to leverage the com-
mitment and cooperation of all employees and ensure open
and respectful interaction with each other. This has once again
shown that we can rely on constructive cooperation with
employee representatives and trade unions.
Health, occupational safety and well-being Organization, responsibilities, specifications and policies
GRI 3-3, 403-1/-3/-4/-6/-7 SDG 3 GRI 403-4/-8
Daimler Truck is committed to comply with all national and
The health, occupational safety, and well-being of our employ- international regulations in accordance with legal require-
ees are a central fundamental at Daimler Truck and an essen- ments. Daimler Truck’s occupational health and safety strategy
tial component of our overall sustainable strategy. goes beyond legal requirements in the design of workplaces
and processes by defining global minimum standards for occu-
Our goal is to preserve the health and protection of all employ- pational health and safety (Group Works Agreement 774).
ees, to identify and prevent health risks, and to permanently
promote health and well-being as a prerequisite for creativity Organizational responsibility at Group level lies with the Health
and productivity. Daimler Truck is committed to “Vision Zero” & Safety department, which comprises Occupational Medicine
and is therefore part of a global initiative of the Institution of (“AM”), Occupational Safety (“AS”) and Ergonomics, Social
Occupational Safety and Health (“IOSH”) and the International Counseling (“SOB”) and Workplace Health Promotion (“BGF”).
Social Security Association (“ISSA”), which aims to prevent The occupational health and safety strategy is developed fur-
work-related accidents and illnesses while promoting the ther and implemented globally in a regular, global dialog. At our
safety, health and well-being of employees. sites, there are reporting lines on occupational safety and
health to the respective site management and to the Health &
We also pursue the objective of a holistic and long-term Safety department. With the help of quarterly meetings, the
approach, which we continuously review and further develop. A Chief Human Resources Officer is involved in all relevant top-
sustainably oriented, functioning health and occupational ics, such as health training and preventive medical examina-
safety management system is of central importance to us. tions, by the Chief Group Physician and the Group Safety Engi-
Whether ergonomic workplace design, health offers or safety neer.
qualifications: The focus is on the health, safety and well-being
of our employees. The major health and occupational safety issues are also regu-
larly discussed, evaluated and developed further with various
Daimler Truck offers its employees in Germany occupational committees, for example the Occupational Safety, Health and
health care and counseling. Employees have the option of tak- Environment Committee, and also with representatives of the
ing the Daimler Truck HealthCheck every three years. This care Works Council and the management at all levels of the Com-
is supplemented by the measures and services of the work- pany. The objective is to continuously improve the measures
place health promotion and counseling services. with regard to sustainability and efficiency.
Our employees have a right to physical and mental health and Daimler Truck complements the legal requirements with addi-
a safe working environment. One focus in the reporting year tionally defined policies. There are globally uniform guidelines
2022 was the implementation of the Group’s “Mental Health” for prevention. The occupational health and safety policy,
agreement. This targeted the implementation of the “Group- which is based on international standards and national laws, is
wide general agreement on mental health.” which aims to the global guideline document and lays the foundation for the
maintain and promote the mental health of employees in the management systems at Daimler Truck. The policy serves as
face of increasing complexity and a dynamic change in society an overarching, internationally valid Group regulation. It
and the working world, reinforced by the COVID-19 pandemic emphasizes the responsibility and exemplary function of the
and the associated measures in recent years. managers and underlines the personal responsibility of
employees.
ISO 45001 certification provides workplace safety for our
employees. At Daimler Truck,15 of the relevant 48 sites (pro-
duction, development and test sites) with majority sharehold-
ing were certified. This covers around 32,000 of our workforce,
which corresponds to around 39% of the relevant workforce. In
addition to external certification audits, we check about every
five years whether the mandatory safety standards of our
Group Policy on Health and Safety in the Workplace are being
complied with at all of the Group’s own production facilities,
and whether a functioning management system for occupa-
tional health & safety (“SGA management system”) is in place.
In the year under review, we evaluated the production sites in
Brazil, South Africa, Japan and Detroit (United States). Eleven
sites in China, India, Indonesia, Mexico and the United States
are scheduled for auditing in 2023.
B.58 All our employees also have personal responsibility for their
Accident frequency health and safety by carrying out their work in a safety-con-
GRI 403-9 scious manner. They have the right to move away from work
situations that they believe constitute an immediate risk to
▾2022 2021 2020
their life or health. Safety risks and near-accidents must be
Occupational accidents1 1,323 1,103 1,175
reported to the manager on a location-specific basis and are
Accident frequency2 7.9 8.0 9.0
dealt with as part of regular meetings in production and admin-
1 Number of work accidents with at least one lost day.
2 Lost Time Injury Rate (“LTIR”); Number work accidents with at least one istration (shop floor management). We record information
day of absence per 1 million attendance hours. about industrial accidents and risks using our accident docu-
mentation systems.
B.59 Country-specific reports are prepared and accident reduction
Absence from work due to accidents at work measures derived. We want to continuously improve the work-
GRI 403-9 places, environments and processes of our employees and
actively involve them in their design process. We utilize a holis-
▾2022 2021 2020
tic health and occupational safety management system in
Loss of work time in days due to
order to prevent work accidents and work-related illnesses.
work accidents 22,415 21,909 17,685
The focus here is primarily on preventive measures, such as
Accident downtime1 134 159 135
instruction and training on occupational safety, Daimler Truck
1 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (“LTIFR”); number of lost days per 1 mil-
lion hours of attendance. Health Check, health programs and digital health services,
which we continuously review and develop further.
Tragically, one person was fatally injured in the year under
B.60
review. The incident has been investigated and the cause iden-
Fatalities due to accidents at work
GRI 403-9 tified. In addition, all managers were requested to conduct
ad-hoc training of all employees in order to avoid the repetition
▾2022 2021 2020 of such an accident.
Number of employee deaths as a
result of work accidents 1 0 1
Awareness of occupational safety
Number if death of external employ-
ees as a result of work accidents 0 0 0 GRI 403-5
Employees are made aware of ergonomics and occupational
safety throughout the Group with videos, various information
portals and online training being used for this purpose during
Assessment of hazards the reporting year. New employees at Daimler Truck receive
GRI 403-2 general initial training in the form of an induction course and
We pursue a preventive approach and assess the potential they receive workplace-specific instruction on safety-relevant
risks of workplaces and work processes at an early stage. To aspects. Daimler Truck offers both mandatory and additional
implement this, instruments and risk assessment processes voluntary qualification measures for newly appointed manag-
have been defined that comply with local regulations. An ers on a site-specific basis and depending on the qualification
important instrument is the risk assessment, which automati- status. External companies receive induction training for exter-
cally generates a briefing document: We have digitalized parts nal companies before entering the plants. In addition, we main-
of this risk management process with an online tool. The tool tain a “Health & Safety Wiki” on the Social Intranet, which we
is provided by the European Occupational Safety and Health regularly update. There, our employees can find all the import-
Agency (“EUOSHA”) and has been enhanced for our needs. The ant information and rules relating to health and safety at work.
objective is to encourage risk awareness among employees In addition, in the year under review, we offered in Germany a
and mindful behavior. The specified global standards, i.e., with cross-site digital health service on the topics of exercise, nutri-
regard to occupational health and safety management (includ- tion and relaxation in order to sustainably raise awareness of
ing risk assessment) and minimum technical standards (for health in the long term.
example technical safety standards for machines and systems),
are to be implemented by our sites. The use of the online tool Dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic
depends on local and legal requirements. The Company continues to adopt measures to contain the
spread of the COVID-19 virus and provides profound informa-
tion.
At the beginning of 2022, we offered our employees for exam-
ple in Germany booster vaccinations. Together with the general
coronavirus protection measures, we were able to track infec-
tion chains and stem them accordingly. Daily policies and deci-
sions were published and updated on an internal coronavirus
information page in the reporting year. Regular coronavirus
updates were also sent via e-mail.
▾ The accident and crisis documentation system was further Following the spin-off from the former Daimler AG, we con-
developed in the reporting year: The resulting integrated, digi- ducted the employee survey Group-wide for the first time in
tal reporting process for crises now enables rapid recording of September 2022, which will be repeated on an annual basis.
all COVID-19 infections and tracking of potential contact per- The results of the Daimler Truck Employee Survey 2022
sons among employees. In addition, infection clusters can be showed that there was an increase in commitment compared
identified quickly and area-specific additional measures can be with the previous survey. With more than100,000 employees,
implemented. ▴ the participation rate remained at a very high level of 79%
(2021: 76%). On a five-point scale from1 (strongly disagree) to
Our culture 5 (extremely satisfied), the overall satisfaction of the work-
force with the company is also reflected in a mean score of
For us, it is important that our values and our culture are 3.96. We see our greatest opportunity in the topic of follow-up
shared and lived by everyone in the Company. To this end, we process (average score: 3.69), which is about discussing
aim to promote the commitment of our employees and results and deriving meaningful measures for further develop-
increase the opportunities for participation – we call this ment. By establishing an annual employee survey, our aim is to
“impact culture”. In doing so, we expect our employees to treat make continuous improvement an integral part of our corpo-
each other with respect, openness and fairness. The basis for rate culture.
this is the “Purpose Principles”, which serve as a guide for con-
duct and mutual cooperation. Further information on our corporate culture and values can be
w
found on our Website.
In 2022, we started global initiatives that allow our leaders to
highlight their impact to the Company. All managers from Daimler Truck as an attractive employer
Board of Management to Level 4 are personally committed to
the new management principles and behaviors. In addition, the We want to be a good and attractive employer – both for our
Daimler Truck Leadership Curriculum supports managers from own employees and for the different target groups in the
level 4 onward in continuously developing themselves and their global labor market. Employer branding and recruiting activi-
leadership actions, with the focus areas being based on our ties are geared to Daimler Truck’s strategy, the needs of the
Guiding Principles and Purpose. With “DTR0CKs”, a training departments, and the expectations of the target groups in the
course was devised that makes it possible to experience the short, medium, and long term.
“Great Leadership Behavior” and to take the first steps towards
implementing it in daily leadership work. In the future, we will In order to raise the profile of Daimler Truck and at the same
sharpen and further develop our processes and structures with time show our employees our appreciation for their day-to-day
regard to our understanding of culture, such as by anchoring work, an internal and external employer campaign was devel-
and integrating our Great Leadership Behavior within the per- oped in 2022. Its objective is to convey our corporate culture,
formance and potential process for managers. “Impact Culture”, and our Daimler Truck purpose internally and
externally and to strengthen our identity.
The Daimler Truck employee survey is an important instrument
for engaging in dialog with our employees. Our aim is to under- In addition to implementing the campaign, we are focusing on
stand what motivates our employees and enable comprehen- digitizing and establishing and expanding our career channels
sive and standardized assessment of the Group and its teams. on the Internet, in particular the careers website and social
It is considered an important indicator of where we currently media channels, such as Instagram, Facebook and LinkedIn.
stand in the areas of satisfaction, commitment, compliance Furthermore, in the year under review we were included for the
and health – and above all where we have the potential to first time as an employer in our own right in the target group
develop. Managers are therefore required to enter into a dialog survey and subsequent employer ranking “Germany’s most
with their employees and take appropriate measures to contin- attractive employers” conducted by the Trendence Institute.
uously develop themselves. The HR-organization provides help We emphasize to personal dialogs with potential applicants
and tools for this purpose. and are therefore represented at national and international
career fairs. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, some of these
took place virtually and some in person during the reporting
year. In addition, our first digital and personal Recruiting &
Employer Branding Event, “REBOOT CAMP”, took place at our
Company headquarters in Germany, to which we invited tal-
ents from the areas of IT and engineering.
Further information about Daimler Truck as an attractive
w
employer can be found on our Website.
Remuneration systems In many cases, employees who are subject to collective bar-
GRI 2-19/-20, 403-3 gaining agreements can also participate in profit-sharing
arrangements at their respective company. In addition, offers
Worldwide, Daimler Truck remunerates work performed at all from numerous sports and social institutions can be used -
Group companies according to the same principles. Our Corpo- from daycare centers to social counseling services.
rate Compensation Policy, which is valid for all groups of
employees, establishes the framework conditions and mini-
mum requirements for the design of the remuneration systems. B.61
It stipulates, among other things, that the amount of remunera- Retirement benefits at the Daimler Truck Group (in bn. €)
tion is based on the assigned requirements of the work tasks – GRI 401-2
in consideration of, for example knowledge and ability, respon-
▾2022 20212, 3 2020
sibility and scope for decision-making – and the person’s
in € billion
performance, not on gender, origin or other personal charac-
teristics. By means of internal audits, the Internal Auditing
Obligations/provisions of company
department annually checks on a random basis whether retirement and health benefits 1.1 1.9 2.9
selected aspects of the policy have been adhered to. In our Cash value of pension obligations on
desire to offer salaries and benefits that are customary in the 31 December1 5.9 8.0 8.6
industry and the respective markets, we also want to take into Social security an post-employment
account local market conditions. costs 0.3 0.4 0.3
Expenditure on statutory pension
plans 0.5 0.5 0.4
The variable compensation (“Company Bonus”) of the manage-
Payments to retirees 0.2 0.2 0.2
ment at levels1 to 3 and level 4 (non-tariff) for the financial
1 The amount of these present values is highly dependent on the accounting
year 2022 is measured not only on the basis of financial per- valuation parameters to be determined annually, in particular the discount
formance criteria but also on the basis of non-financial ESG rate.
(environment, social and governance) targets. 2 Due to the spin-off and independence of the Daimler commercial vehicles
business in December 2021, these data are not comparable with those of
previous years.
On a regular basis, our HR-departments conduct individual 3 These data have been adjusted due to the spin-off and independence of
income review interviews with our employees. In this way, we the Daimler commercial vehicles business, but still contain minor uncer-
tainties as adjustments for combined locations and units can only be
ensure salary decision-making transparency while complying made in the 2022 financial year.
with data protection regulations. The respective development
potential is also discussed. If employees have justified objec-
tions to their remuneration – for example, if they do not see Flexible working-time arrangements
themselves as being treated equally – they are free to contact
their manager, the HR department or the works council. As a company, we have learned from the COVID-19 pandemic
that hybrid working is the working model of the future - wher-
In companies subject to collective bargaining agreements, ever the job allows. For instance in Germany, we were able to
such as Daimler Truck AG, the agreements that have been draw on an existing flexible company agreement on mobile
reached grant employees additional rights. These give them working. At the same time, a transformation in office work-
the right to object to their placement in a specific salary group places is being observed worldwide: Open office spaces with-
or to the results of their performance assessment. The remu- out fixed workstation assignment and modern collaboration
neration regulations and salary tables can be viewed by zones promote an open corporate culture. We are also working
employees. Employees of Daimler Truck AG can find out about on introducing more flexible working time models in produc-
their salary structure and amount online – even in comparison tion areas, such as part-time work.
to their peer groups.
Part-time models in all forms have a long tradition – from less
Employees at Daimler Truck AG and its subsidiaries who are working hours per day, to selected working days per week, to
subject to a collective bargaining agreement are usually also temporary leave, such as parental leave. Employees can
offered voluntary benefits that are agreed upon with the make use of this to take care of their family or attend a training
respective employees’ representative bodies. These benefits course. In many cases, the possibilities of time off or the
include employer-funded contributions to retirement benefits reduction of working hours for the care of children goes beyond
and options to participate in an employee-funded retirement the legal framework in the individual countries.
benefits system.
B.62 We have a methodological approach for observing quantitative
Parental leave1 and qualitative aspects of workforce development. We collect
GRI 401-3 quantitative data using an online tool. We also analyze strategi-
cally relevant abilities with the help of qualitative methods.
2022 2021 2020
Here we compare existing specialist, methodological, and
Employees eligible for parental
leave 28,565 27,648 27,256 social skills with future requirements. This procedure helps us
thereof female 4,330 3,841 3,527 to discover potential bottlenecks in specialist units and to plan
Employees on parental leave2 1,176 1,102 1,008 the need for up-and-coming staff and training in advance.
thereof female 418 413 335
1 Daimler Truck AG, Daimler Truck Financial Services GmbH, Apprentices and students
Daimler Truck Financial Services Germany GmbH. Daimler Truck provides training according to the requirements
2 Return rate 99.9%. of our Company and we continuously review the portfolio of
our apprenticeships and courses of study. Our internationally
recognized dual study programs are offered at various com-
In Germany, we provide employees with childcare places in our pany locations. We have standardized our training content in
in-house daycare centers. We also cooperate with support Germany across all locations and segments in the Daimler
centers: Parents can contact our cooperation partner if they Truck Training System.
have questions about alternative childcare options or need a
tutor for their children. Employees who would like to care for In the year under review, Daimler Truck AG continued to focus
relatives can leave the Company for a period of time beyond on the areas of IT skills and IT professions, as well as high-volt-
that defined by legal provisions, or reduce their working hours age and battery technology. For example, we offer vocational
for this period for up to four years– with guaranteed reinstate- training for IT specialists and automotive mechatronics techni-
ment. The objective of all measures is to facilitate a better bal- cians for system and high-voltage technology as well as a
ance between work and family life. course of study in embedded systems, which includes IT and
electrical engineering.
Qualification
GRI 404-1/-2 In Germany, 472 young people started a new training or dual
study program in the reporting year (2021: 449). The same
The knowledge and skills of our employees are the foundation number of training and study places were advertised for the
of Daimler Truck’s worldwide success. In the course of the pro- following year.
found transformation in our industry, job descriptions, duties,
and requirement profiles are changing. B.63
Apprenticeship
Our objective is to continuously further develop our workforce GRI 404-1
and thus make a significant contribution to the competitive-
2022 20211
ness of Daimler Truck. We invest strategically in training and
Total average training hours2 1,116.8 1,114.0
professional development, continue to expand our HR develop-
thereof female apprentices3 1,080.7 1,068.9
ment programs and adapt our training portfolio and the range
thereof in the business unit 994.9 945.1
of dual study courses at universities. In order to successfully
thereof in the technical trade unit 1,124.8 1,124.1
manage the digital and technological transformation, we rely
1 These data are based on calculations by the former Daimler AG and
on diverse and, needs-based qualifications of our employees. contain minor inaccuracies due to the spin-off of the Daimler commercial
In addition, we conduct the targeted recruitment of talent with vehicle business as a separate company, as so-called mixed locations and
digital skills and technical expertise in new technologies. units can only be adjusted in the balance sheet as of the 2022 financial year.
2 These data refer to Daimler Truck AG in Germany.
3 The lower average number of training hours per female apprentice can be
On average, the qualification hours between January and explained by the relatively higher proportion of women studying at cooper-
November 2022, which we record in our learning management ative state universities. Thus the number of days spent in the company is
lower than for trainees.
systems, amounted to around twelve hours per employee (1.5
working days). In 2021, the average for the reporting year was
around10 hours. For female employees, the average number of Interculturalism plays an important role for us. As early as the
qualification hours (January to November) was about ten hours training stage, our international program abroad “Truck goes
(in 2021, this was about seven hours). In addition, we are Global” for trainees and trainers lays the foundations for mobil-
increasingly using learning formats that are integrated into the ity and flexibility as well as foreign language and intercultural
work process. So these average values represent only part of skills - financed and supported by the “Erasmus+ Program” of
the actual scope of qualification. the European Union.
Daimler Truck also meets its social responsibility internation-
ally and trains young people itself or through collaborations
with schools. In Brazil, for example, young people with profes-
sional courses are being prepared for working life through a
school collaboration.
Trainee programs Continuing education
As part of our globally established “INspire – the Trucks and We promote the professional and personal qualification of our
Buses Experience Programs” trainee program, we offer two employees. We make sure that our people have the right skills
appealing entry and development paths for talent: The “Lead- and the means to continuously improve them, and in this man-
ership Talent Track” as an entry point for graduates and career ner we ensure that our employees, and in particular our man-
starters who are aiming for a future management career. agers, remain employable and innovative in a changing envi-
During the18-month program, the trainees complete individu- ronment.
ally tailored project assignments at home and abroad and
exchange ideas on focus topics in the global INspire network. E-learning platforms:
The “Expert Track” is aimed at graduates, career starters and In order to provide employees with support as part of the Peo-
experts with professional experience. These trainees spend ple and Culture strategic goal for transformation across the
over 36 months working on highly relevant topics of the future board, e-learning platforms will be added to the learning port-
with a focus on advancing the transformation of our products. folio. In the reporting year, for example, we rolled out the
91 talents are currently employed. “LinkedIn Learning” learning platform across the Group as a
first step. Every employee has access to a learning license,
With the innovative “Green Mobility Trainee” approach, which makes it possible to access over17,000 web-based
together with five other companies in the mobility and logistics learning offerings all year round and thus to qualify in different
sector (Daimler Truck, DB Schenker, Lufthansa Cargo, subject areas regardless of location and time.
Lufthansa InnovationHub, ONOMOTION and time:matters), we
launched a cross-divisional trainee program that focuses on an New powertrain technologies:
industry that is sustainable for the first time in 2021. The Com- In order to ensure that our employees have the necessary
pany welcomed the first trainees in the 2022 reporting year. qualifications on the subject of new powertrain technologies,
such as high-voltage safety and handling hydrogen compo-
Extra-occupational study nents, we have enrolled specific training modules fitting to the
We place great importance to the individual academic training highest industrial standard and safety regulations. The scien-
of our specialists and managers. This is why we offer the tific backdrop for the development of the new technologies is
Daimler Truck Academic Programs at all Group companies in covered by what is known as the “Smart Academic Program.”
Germany: The Daimler Truck Academic Programs offer employ- Here, courses and modules are provided at an academic level,
ees who have been at the Company for at least one year the in cooperation with various universities and educational pro-
opportunity to study while they continue to work — regardless viders on defined focus topics. The content is geared towards
of their age or their professional development up to that point. business needs and is currently focused on transformation-rel-
We provide such employees with financial support and an evant clusters such as new drivetrain technologies, digitaliza-
accompanying program. In 2022, we prioritized courses of tion, autonomous driving and sustainability. In addition, we
study that support the transformation of Daimler Truck. have started the rollout of technology training courses and
were able to successfully meet the upcoming requirements
from various projects within the Daimler Truck AG.
DEI management creates the framework for a diverse and
inclusive corporate culture and is located in the Human
Resources department. The team develops strategic fields of
action in cooperation with the global DEI network, consisting
of DEI experts from various organizational units worldwide,
and in coordination with all business units. Furthermore, the
network initiates overarching projects, training and aware-
ness-raising measures, such as the annual “Diversity Day”,
along the seven diversity dimensions mentioned above.
The newly established “DEI Advisory Board” will also begin its
work from 2023. Half of the committee consists of senior man-
agers from all organizational units while the other half consists
of diversity experts and representatives of under-represented
More than 100,000 people from over 125 nations work at groups. The DEI Advisory Board is chaired by Martin Daum,
Daimler Truck. Chairman of the Board of Management of Daimler Truck. The
committee will meet once a quarter. The DEI Advisory Board
decides on the strategy and relevant topics relating to diver-
sity, equal opportunities, and inclusion, advises the Daimler
Truck Board of Management, and anchors the topic in the divi-
Diversity as a success factor sions. Initiatives adopted by the Board will eventually be taken
SDG 5,10 forward through the global DEI network.
Our workforce is as diverse as our customers. More than
100,000 people from over 125 nations work for us. Diversity B.64
helps us to find new viewpoints. In addition diversity acts as a DEI Advisory Board
driving force behind creative ideas and innovations. We are
convinced: Diversity is an important aspect of our corporate
culture and makes us more successful as a company. We pro-
mote an impact culture in which our employees can freely
develop their talents. We therefore need to be respectful of
Board of Management
one another and remain open-minded, which means there is
no place for discrimination in the workplace. For us, inclusion
consults
means treating the diversity of our employees consciously, and
appreciatively. As a signatory to the “Diversity Charter,” the
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (“DEI”) Management at Daimler
Truck focuses on equal opportunities for employees across all
seven diversity dimensions - namely age, ethnicity and nation-
ality, gender and gender identity, physical and mental ability,
religion and belief, sexual orientation, and social origin. We DEI Advisory Board
strengthen our principles by participating in the UN Global
Compact, through membership of the Charter of Diversity empowers
employer initiative Charta der Vielfalt e.V. and the European
Women’s Management Development Network e.V.
Organization and responsibility
Global DEI Network:
For the Daimler Truck AG and other Group units, the principles Network to operationalize DEI strategy
of diversity, equal opportunities and inclusion are laid down in
the general company agreements for the promotion of women
and equal opportunities, and in the inclusion agreement. Fur-
thermore, these topics are regulated in our Code of Conduct
and our “Group-wide general agreement on fairness in the
workplace”.
Managers as role models Commitment in networks
As a common basis for shaping the management culture at Through networks (Employee Business Resource Groups), our
Daimler Truck, the e-learning program “Inclusion in Mind!” was employees can share common interests, experiences and val-
rolled out in the reporting year as a mandatory requirement for ues across all levels and divisions. Our networks help to firmly
all managers from the Board of Management level to level 4. It establish a culture of diversity and appreciation in the Com-
is available in nine languages. The aim of the training is to raise pany. At the same time, they support us as dialog partners in
awareness of respectful cooperation and possible stumbling the further development of our measures concerning diversity,
blocks and to show how each individual can contribute. It also equity and inclusion. Daimler Truck has five company-wide net-
teaches learners what effective methods to reduce potential works and many other regional groups around the world. Most
biases and resolve conflicts are available. The global participa- of these are cultural, gender-related and “LGBTIQ networks”.
tion rate in this e-learning is linked to the 2022 bonus payment To promote interaction between the networks, the Diversity,
for executive managers. Worldwide, 97.5% of our managers Equity & Inclusion Management team organizes regular meet-
have completed the training. “Inclusion in Mind!” was awarded ings.
the “eLearning Award 2022” by the “eLearning Journal”.
In addition, the intern “Global Inclusion & Diversity Community”
Promoting diversity throughout the employee journey on the Social Intranet portal is the meeting place for all
GRI 404-2 employees around the world who would like to help shape
Daimler Truck promotes diversity already before talents join diversity, equal opportunities and inclusion at Daimler Truck.
the Group. As a cooperation partner of the “FEMTEC Network”, The Community provides important and up-to-date information
we support young engineers and offer students in the fields of about the topic, but also offers the opportunity to network, ask
mathematics, IT, science and technology (“MINT”) insights into questions or contribute ideas.
the Company and opportunities for dialog and cooperation.
Gender Diversity Aspiration
When recruiting, diversity is of great importance to Daimler With this Gender Diversity Aspiration, Daimler Truck strives to
Truck: 54% of new hires through our INspire talent programs continuously increase the proportion of women in manage-
have an international background and 41% of new hires since ment positions. To measure the proportion of women in man-
the start of the program are women. The Company also places agement, we draw on the relevant data from our HR-reporting
special emphasis on training young people with disabilities. An systems. The results are reported to the Board of Management
action plan has been created for hiring severely disabled on a regular and standardized basis. At the end of the report-
apprentices. The aim of the action plan is to facilitate the appli- ing year, the proportion of women in management positions
cation process for people with disabilities. was18.6%. We aim to increase the proportion to be 25% by
2030.
The new women’s support program “She@Truck” is a pilot proj-
ect in the Truck Technology and Mercedes-Benz Trucks units.
The15-month program is embedded in Level 3 Potential Devel-
opment and includes an individual learning program with men-
toring and coaching, combined with joint work meetings as
part of a network. What is new about this concept is that the
sponsors and mentors are also involved in workshops to fur-
ther promote diversity in the filling of management positions.
Cooperation with employee representatives and In the year under review, the newly developed Declaration of
trade unions Principles for Social Responsibility and Human Rights was also
GRI 2-30 adopted jointly with the Global Employee Representative Coun-
cil for Daimler Truck. It confirms our commitment in this regard
It is one of our fundamental beliefs to work with elected and specifies our Code of Conduct with terms of human rights
employee representatives and trade unions in a trust-based and good working conditions.
relationship. This is the only way to successfully overcome
the varied challenges together and take advantage of opportu- In addition to many different topics, a particular focus of the
nities. global cooperation between companies and employee repre-
sentatives is the successful shaping of transformation to emis-
We recognize the right of our employees to form employee rep- sion-free mobility and digitalization. The aim is to establish an
resentation organizations for collective bargaining in order to economically sustainable and successful company while at the
regulate working conditions, as well as the right to strike, same time protecting employment as much as possible in
depending on applicable law. On this basis, it is our common terms of the social context. An important measure in this con-
aim to agree on constructive regulations and solutions that are text is the qualification and further training of employees,
in the interest of companies and employees and thus form a which was successively expanded globally in the reporting year
sustainable and strong foundation for a successful future for 2022.
Daimler Truck. Collective agreements are in place for the
majority of employees across the Group, for example through Another key focus of the work with employee representatives
bargaining agreements. In Europe, around 70% of employees is all issues relating to occupational safety and the health of
are subject to the provisions of a bargaining agreement, with employees. The trust-based cooperation has also been demon-
more than 95% in Germany alone, and around 65% in North strated in the continuously readjusted operational measures
America and Asia. during the COVID-19 pandemic.
In the reporting year, the works councils at the sites of Daimler Common agreements with employee representatives in
Truck AG and subsidiaries were re-elected in Germany in Germany were also made in connection with energy-saving
accordance with the Works Constitution Act. The General measures in the company – with the collective understanding
Works Council and the Group Works Council were then restruc- that we all have to make our contribution.
tured and new responsible commissions were set up to coordi-
nate important company regulations. The bodies at the interna-
tional level – the European Works Council (“EWC”) and the
World Employee Committee (“WEC”) – were also newly formed
and merged. Daimler Truck is setting an example worldwide
here, because countries outside the European Union now have
the same rights and obligations as those in the EU, to which
the EWC Directive applies directly. Currently, 23 countries are
represented according to their number of employees and have
deployed 34 representatives. Further information on the Works
Council and international committees can be found on our
w
Website.
Further information
We see more integrated reporting as another important mech-
anism for further developing our sustainable business strategy.
About this report For this reason, we have decided to integrate aspects of sus-
GRI 2-2/-3 tainability into the Annual Report for the reporting year and
The information in our chapter “Sustainability at Daimler Truck” have refrained from a separate sustainability report.
relates to the entire Daimler Truck Group. Further information
E
can be found in the section Business model. The reporting ▾ EU taxonomy
period corresponds to our financial year, which runs from Janu- Companies are obliged to apply the Taxonomy Regulation if
ary1 to December 31. they are required to prepare a non-financial statement in
accordance with Articles19a and 29a of the EU Accounting
▾ Non-financial statement of the Group Directive, implemented by Section 289b Subsection 1 and Sec-
GRI 2-5 tion 315b Subsection 1 of the HGB. According to this, Daimler
The non-financial statement of the Group according to Sec- Truck has been obliged to apply the Taxonomy Regulation since
tions 315b and 315c in conjunction with Sections 289c to 289e the 2021 reporting year. Daimler Truck applied the reporting
of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch or requirements in accordance with the Taxonomy Regulation for
“HGB”) were subjected to a business audit to obtain limited the 2021 reporting year and exercised the relief provisions for
assurance. It contains the essential information on the aspects the year of initial application, according to which only the tax-
of environmental concerns, employee concerns, social con- onomy eligibility had to be reported. For the 2022 reporting
cerns, combating corruption and bribery, and respect for year, Daimler Truck is publishing the full disclosures in accor-
human rights in the chapter “Sustainability at Daimler Truck” dance with the Taxonomy Regulation for the first time. Thus, in
E
as well as information on the Business model and non-fi- addition to the proportions of taxonomy-eligible and non-eligi-
E
nancial risks in the Risk and Opportunity Report. Part of ble economic activities, the proportions of taxonomy-aligned
the non-financial statement within the chapter “Sustainability economic activities in turnover, investments (“CapEx”) and
at Daimler Truck” are the correspondingly marked texts and operating expenditure (“OpEx”) must also be disclosed.
tables (▾▴). Other texts, tables, cross-references and content
of external websites are additional information which are not Production-related energy and e nvironmental data
part of the non-financial statement of the Group and therefore GRI 305-1/-2/-4
have not been audited. The data in the Environment section is based on the Group
structure as of the reporting date of December 31, 2022. This
Daimler Truck applies the guidelines of the Global Reporting includes all production sites and selected test tracks and R&D
Initiative (“GRI”) as a framework for external reporting. The sites of the Group companies controlled by Daimler Truck as
contents of the non-financial Group statement in conjunction well as selected joint ventures with 50% participation.
with further information that can be found in this report and on Production sites include all “Completely Built Up” (“CBU”),
our website have been prepared in accordance with the GRI “Completely Knocked Down” (“CKD”) and Remanufacturing
standards. ▴ (“Reman”) sites. There has been no retroactive adjustment of
the figures for 2020 and 2021.
w
The GRI content index can be found on our Website. In
addition to the Sustainable Development Goals (“SDG”), on The environmental data is collected from the sites in our envi-
which we focus, we refer to other SDGs to which we contribute ronmental data system. If in individual cases no actual values
with our activities. Further information can be found on our are available in February, estimates are made on the basis of
w
Website under the heading “Sustainability”. the previous year’s values and the change in production. Air
emissions are measured regularly and extrapolated to the year,
▾ A materiality analysis was conducted in 2022 to determine and VOC emissions are also calculated on the basis of various
the relevant reporting content in accordance with sections input or output parameters.
289c and 315c HGB. For details, please refer to section
E
Materiality analysis. ▴ Daimler Truck calculates and documents its CO 2 emissions
according to the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Stan-
What has changed in this report? dard 2004 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative, in accor-
GRI 2-4 dance with the categories Scope 1 and Scope 2. Scope 1 and
Qualitative information in the report relates primarily to the Scope 2 emissions are reported in accordance with the Con-
2022 financial year, while the key figures presented generally trol approach of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
cover three years. The reporting date for the collection of
quantitative data was December 31, 2022. Isolated deviations Documented are all direct CO emissions from our Company’s
2
are marked in each case. own sources (Scope1), indirect emissions resulting from the
generation of the purchased electricity and district heat
During the reporting period, further organizational changes (Scope 2).
occurred due to the spin-off of Daimler Truck AG in Decem-
ber 2021 from the former Daimler AG compared to the 2021 Scope1: We calculate our direct emissions from the combus-
Report, so that comparability of the data with the previous tion of fuels, heating oil, natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas,
Sustainability Report is only partially possible. and coal with fixed CO emission factors as specified by the
2
World Business Council for Sustainable Development ventures with a 50% stake are included. Production sites
(“WBCSD”) or the German Emissions Trading Office (“DEHSt”), include all CBU, CKD and Reman sites. There has been no retro-
the regulation on Emission Reporting (“BeV”), the Global Emis- active adjustment of the figures for 2020 and 2021. ▴
sions Model of Integrated Systems 4 (“Gemis 4”) as well as the
Department of Energy Information Administration (“DOE EIA”).
B.65
Scope 2: We calculate the indirect emissions of district heating Employees by regions
and electricity from external generation in a differentiated ▾20221 20211 2020
manner in terms of time and region. CO 2 accounting is carried Europe 47,270 45,251 45,149
out using the “market-based” accounting approach. To this thereof female 6,414 5,582 5,198
end, we collect the CO emission factors of the local electricity North America 29,696 27,115 23,453
2
tariffs or electricity supply companies at our sites worldwide. thereof female 5,656 5,213 4,124
Where these are not available, the current average emission Latin America2 10,659 10,756 9,444
thereof female 1,230 1,200 984
factor published for the respective country by the International
Asia 15,500 15,259 14,977
Energy Agency (“IEA”) or for the USA by the US Environmental
thereof female 1,498 1,469 1,381
Protection Agency will continue to be used. For comparison
Africa 1,356 1,223 1,360
purposes, CO emissions are also reported in accordance with
2 thereof female 224 185 194
the “location-based” method, which only includes the coun- Australia/Oceania 249 245 287
try-specific emission factors. thereof female 75 78 55
Total 104,729 99,849 94,670
Specific environmental and energy thereof female 15,097 13,727 11,936
Resource consumption and emissions largely depend on the 1 Incl. Financial Services.
2 Excluding Mexico.
production volume. Therefore, we calculate specific values for
product areas of our Industrial Business. For this purpose, the
data of the production plants is based on the number of vehi- B.66
cles produced in the product areas in the plants controlled by Employees by groups
the company. We collect the specific values according to the ▾20221 20211 2020
segment allocation that has been in force since Decem- Industrial 65,194 63,033 58,994
ber 2021. The specific data gained in this way can only repre- thereof female 5,202 4,834 4,014
Administration 39,536 36,816 35,676
sent general benchmarks, because they do not take into
thereof female 9,895 8,893 7,921
account the development of the vertical integration of produc-
Total 104,729 99,849 94,670
tion, the product variety and the special features of the pro-
thereof female 15,097 13,727 11,935
duction network, which in some cases extends across seg-
ments.
Other employee groups2
Apprentices 2,855 2,665 2,460
Employee data thereof female 506 503 434
GRI 2-7, 401-1/-3 Interns/integrated master’s degree
The employee data is based on the Group structure as of students/doctoral candidates/work-
ing students/senior experts 1,139 858 932
December 31, 2022. For the first time, the definition of employ-
thereof female 449 330 347
ees is based on full-time equivalent of the active workforce.
1 Incl. Financial Services.
The active workforce compromises non-permanent or perma- 2 In Headcount.
nent employment contracts excluding trainees, interns,
diploma students, doctoral candidates, working students,
B.67
senior experts, holiday workers, temporary workers and with-
External hires rate1
out inactive employment contracts, such as parental leave,
GR 401-1
sabbaticals, passive pre-retirement part-time work, and inter-
2022 2021 2020
national assignments, partial retirement in the release phase
in %
and long-term illness. The employee data for 2020 and 2021
were retrospectively adjusted to this method.
Europe 7.7 2.5 1.5
thereof female 11.2 3.8 1.7
Data on health, occupational safety and well-being North America 16.7 25.1 4.4
GRI 403-9 thereof female 20.6 27.2 4.1
The data in the chapter health, safety and welfare is based on Latin America2 12.9 3.5 2.1
the Group structure as of December 31, 2022. The data from thereof female 10.7 5.2 2.2
Daimler Truck’s internal systems are used for data reporting. In Asia 9.5 5.7 3.3
this context, subcontractors comprise workforce with a work or thereof female 14.9 7.7 4.8
service contract with Daimler Truck. Accidents and deaths of Africa 2.0 3.4 0.8
thereof female 5.9 5.7 1.8
external workers are taken into account when they happen on
Australia/Oceania 13.3 14.8 4.5
our factory premises. In case of accident indicators, all produc-
thereof female 13.2 20.8 7.1
tion sites and selected test tracks and R&D sites of the Group
Total 11.0 9.2 2.5
companies controlled by Daimler Truck as well as selected joint thereof female 14.9 12.9 2.8
1 Based on permanent active workforce in headcount.
B.68 B.70
Employee turnover rate (in %)1 Employment by employment relationship
GRI 401-1 GRI 102-8
2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
in % Permanent 101,047 96,691 90,868
thereof female 14,800 13,433 11,479
Europe 6.2 6.9 4.4 Europe 46,036 44,513 44,583
thereof female 5.8 7.8 4.5 thereof female 6,297 5,485 5,083
North America 12.7 15.1 8.7 North America 29,627 26,981 22,089
thereof female 8.9 11.0 3.2 thereof female 5,645 5,179 3,910
Latin America 15.9 5.9 8.6 Latin America1 10,610 10,718 9,381
thereof female 12.0 7.1 6.5 thereof female 1,221 1,196 976
Asia 7.6 7.1 4.7 Asia 13,322 13,083 13,185
thereof female 11.5 7.8 5.9 thereof female 1,377 1,319 1,265
Africa 4.0 4.4 6.2 Africa 1,215 1,160 1,352
thereof female 5.3 7.3 6.6 thereof female 187 178 193
Australia/Oceania 12.9 50.6 24.8 Australia/Oceania 237 237 278
thereof female 15.9 26.4 21.4 thereof female 72 76 52
Total 9.3 9.1 5.9
thereof female 8.0 9.0 4.5 Temporary 3,682 3,157 3,802
1 Based on permanent active workforce in headcount. thereof female 298 294 457
2 Excluding Mexico.
Europe 1,233 738 566
thereof female 117 97 115
North America 69 134 1,364
thereof female 11 34 214
B.69
Latin America1 49 38 63
Employee turnover rate self-motivated termination1
thereof female 9 4 8
GRI 401-1
Asia 2,178 2,176 1,792
2022 2021 2020 thereof female 121 150 116
in % Africa 141 63 8
thereof female 37 7 1
Europe 1.8 18 0.9 Australia/Oceania 12 8 9
thereof female 2.2 1.9 1.2 thereof female 3 2 3
North America 8.2 10.6 4.5
thereof female 8.6 10.1 2.5 Total* 104,729 99,849 94,670
Latin America2 0.0 0.0 0.1 thereof female 15,097 13,727 11,935
thereof female 0.0 0.0 0.0 Full-time 101,947 95,507 85,715
Asia 1.7 2.2 0.1 thereof female 13,754 12,226 9,653
thereof female 2.7 3.1 0.2 Part-time 2,782 4,342 8,955
Africa 0.3 1.1 1.3 thereof female 1,343 1,501 2,282
thereof female 1.1 3.1 1.2 1 Excluding Mexico.
Australia/Oceania 7.1 6.6 3.2
thereof female 10.6 7.5 0.0
Total 3.4 4.0 1.5
B.71
thereof female 4.4 4.9 1.4
Employees by age groups1
1 Based on permanent active workforce in headcount.
GRI 405-1
2 Excluding Mexico.
▾2022 2021 2020
in %
below 25 years 8.1 10.1 8.8
25 to below 35 years 24.0 22.9 23.1
35 to below 45 years 26.2 25.7 25.5
45 to below 55 years 25.7 25.7 26.4
55 years and older 16.0 15.6 16.2
1 Based on permanent active workforce in headcount.
Editorial note
GRI 2-3
Our last Sustainability Report was published on June 8, 2022
and is entitled “Sustainability Report 2021”. Due to the integra-
tion into the Annual Report 2022, no separate Sustainability
Report will be published in 2023.
Contact person
Sustainability Reporting
Sustainability_dt@daimlertruck.com
Sustainability at Daimler Truck
Takeover-Relevant Information and Explanation
(Report pursuant to Sections 315a and 289a of the German Commercial Code
( Handelsgesetzbuch or “HGB”))
Composition of the subscribed capital Furthermore, the agreement provides that Mercedes-Benz
As of December 31, 2022, the subscribed capital of Daimler Group AG and Mercedes-Benz Verwaltungsgesellschaft für
Truck Holding AG (in the following also referred to as the “Com- Grundbesitz mbH shall not exercise their voting rights in the
pany”) amounts to €822,951,882. The share capital is divided event of an early election or re-election of individual share-
into 822,951,882 no-par-value registered shares. Pursuant to holder representatives or in the event of the election of substi-
Section 67 Subsection 2 of the German Stock Corporation Act tute members, insofar as a resolution is adopted on the
(Aktiengesetz or “AktG”), the rights and obligations arising appointment or reappointment or replacement of a Supervi-
from shares exclusively exist in relation to the Company for sory Board member in whose original election they did not
and against the persons and entities entered in the share reg- exercise their voting rights. This also applies to resolutions on
ister. With the exception of own shares held by the Company the dismissal of Supervisory Board members, insofar as they
(“treasury shares”), from which the Company does not derive did not exercise their voting rights in the election of the rele-
any rights, all shares confer equal rights to their holders. Each vant Supervisory Board members on the basis of the deconsol-
share grants its holder one vote and, with the exception of any idation agreement. With regard to the election of the eight
new shares not entitled to dividends, an equal share in the shareholder representatives for which Mercedes-Benz
profits in accordance with the dividend distribution approved Group AG and the Mercedes-Benz Verwaltungsgesellschaft für
by the Annual General Meeting. The rights and obligations aris- Grundbesitz mbH are entitled to exercise their voting rights
ing from the shares are derived from applicable law, in particu- under the deconsolidation agreement, the latter provides that
lar Sections12, 53a et seq.,118 et seq. and186 of the German Mercedes-Benz Group AG and Mercedes-Benz Verwaltungs-
Stock Corporation Act (“AktG”). As of December 31, 2022, the gesellschaft für Grundbesitz mbH shall submit corresponding
Company did not hold any treasury shares. proposals to the Supervisory Board of the Company in good
time prior to the adoption of the resolution on its election pro-
Restrictions affecting voting rights or posals. The deconsolidation agreement entered into force
the transfer of shares upon the spin-off taking effect and has an initial term until the
The Company is not entitled to any rights from treasury shares. conclusion of the fifth Annual General Meeting of Daimler
In the cases set out in Section136 of the German Stock Corpo- Truck Holding AG following the Annual General Meeting of
ration Act (“AktG”), voting rights associated with such shares Daimler Truck Holding AG in 2022, and it will be extended if it
are excluded by law. is not duly terminated by either party. Subject to any approvals
under merger and investment control legislation, the agree-
In the context of the separation of the commercial vehicle ment will come to an end in accordance with Section158 Sub-
business from the Mercedes-Benz Group in the 2021 financial section 2 of the German Civil Code (Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch
year, Mercedes-Benz Group AG (formerly Daimler AG), or “BGB”) (condition subsequent) if the (in)direct share owner-
Mercedes-Benz Verwaltungsgesellschaft für Grundbesitz mbH ship of Mercedes-Benz Group AG in Daimler Truck Holding AG
(formerly Daimler Verwaltungsgesellschaft für Grundbesitz should fall below 20.00% of the shares.
mbH), and Daimler Truck Holding AG entered into a so-called
deconsolidation agreement on August 6, 2021, as an annex to In the context of the Group separation agreement, which is
the spin-off and hive-down agreement, which took effect upon also an annex to the spin-off and hive-down agreement, which
entry of the spin-off and hive-down in the commercial register was notarized on August 6, 2021, Mercedes-Benz Group AG
of Mercedes-Benz Group AG as transferring legal entity on committed not to sell any of the shares in Daimler Truck Hold-
December 9, 2021. This is intended to ensure that a de-facto ing AG directly or indirectly held by Mercedes-Benz Group AG
majority of Mercedes-Benz Group AG at the General Meeting at the time of consummation of the spin-off and hive-down
of Daimler Truck Holding AG does not lead to a control rela- agreement without the prior consent of Daimler Truck Hold-
tionship and a related full consolidation obligation of Daimler ing AG until the end of the day that falls 36 months after the
Truck Holding AG at Mercedes-Benz Group AG. To this end, the first day of trading of the shares in Daimler Truck Holding AG
deconsolidation agreement provides, among other things, that on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange (“lock-up period”). Disposals
Mercedes-Benz Group AG and Mercedes-Benz Verwaltungs- to affiliated companies within the meaning of Section15 of the
gesellschaft für Grundbesitz mbH undertake not to exercise German Stock Corporation Act (“AktG”), or to Mercedes-Benz
their voting rights in the election of two out of ten shareholder Pension Trust e.V. (formerly Daimler Pension Trust e.V.), as
representatives to the Supervisory Board of Daimler Truck well as any measures that are not caused by any conduct
Holding AG at the General Meeting of Daimler Truck Hold- (action, toleration or omission) of Mercedes-Benz Group AG
ing AG. are excluded from this obligation. If, in the opinion of the Board
of Management of Mercedes-Benz Group AG, such a disposal
is necessary in the sense of prudent and conscientious man-
agement (Section 93 Subsection1 of the German Stock
Corporation Act (“AktG”)), in consideration of the economic voting rights notification of Mercedes-Benz Group AG of Janu-
and strategic considerations applying at the relevant time ary 28, 2022, this affected shares amounting to 4.99% of the
Mercedes-Benz Group AG will, without the prior consent of share capital of Daimler Truck Holding AG. The total number of
Daimler Truck Holding AG, not be prevented by the Group sep- voting rights of Mercedes-Benz Group AG or attributed to
aration agreement from disposing of the shares in Daimler Mercedes-Benz Group AG under the German Securities Trading
Truck Holding AG subject to the lock-up period since the end of Act (“WpHG”) as of December 31, 2022 amounts to a total of
the day that falls twelve months after the first day of trading of 35.00% of the voting rights.
the shares in Daimler Truck Holding AG on the Frankfurt Stock
Exchange (i.e., December11, 2022). Exceptions to this shall be Other direct or indirect holdings of the share capital of Daimler
disposals to a direct competitor of Daimler Truck Holding AG, Truck Holding AG that reach or exceed10.00% of the voting
which shall not be permitted within the lock-up period. Fur- rights were not reported to the Company and are otherwise
thermore, Mercedes-Benz Group AG has stated with regard to not known.
the manner of disposal to be sought that, in the event of a dis-
posal within the first six years after the first stock exchange Legal requirements and provisions laid down in the Arti-
trading day of the shares in Daimler Truck Holding AG, it will cles of Incorporation regarding the appointment and dis-
sell the relevant shares in Daimler Truck Holding AG primarily missal of members of the Board of Management and
in such a way that the disposal results in an increase in the regarding amendments to the Articles of Incorporation
free float of Daimler Truck Holding AG, unless this form of dis- The appointment and dismissal of members of the Board of
posal would not be compatible with the duties of care of the Management is based on Sections 84, 85 of the German Stock
Board of Management of Mercedes-Benz Group AG (Section Corporation Act (“AktG”) and Section 31 German Co-Determi-
93 Subsection1 of the German Stock Corporation Act nation Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz or “MitbestG”). Pursuant to
(“AktG”)). Section 84 of the German Stock Corporation Act (“AktG”), the
members of the Board of Management are appointed by the
Shares in Daimler Truck Holding AG, which employees of Supervisory Board for a maximum term of five years. Accord-
Daimler Truck AG and its German subsidiaries have acquired ing to recommendation B.3 of the German Corporate Gover-
as part of the employee share program of Daimler Truck AG in nance Code, the initial appointment of members of the Board
accordance with Sections 71d Sentence 2, 71 Subsection1 of Management is to be for a maximum of three years. Already
No. 2 of the German Stock Corporation Act (“AktG”), are sub- prior to the stock exchange listing of Daimler Truck Holding AG,
ject to a lock-up until the end of the year following the year of Martin Daum was appointed as a member of the Board of Man-
acquisition. agement of Daimler Truck Holding AG until February 28, 2025,
Jochen Goetz until June 30, 2026, and Jürgen Hartwig until
In accordance with the plan conditions and the so-called November 30, 2026. This exception was specified and
“Stock Ownership Guidelines” of the Performance Phantom explained in the Declaration of Compliance with German Cor-
Share-Plans (“PPSP”), members of the Board of Management porate Governance Code. The appointment of the other mem-
are required to acquire Daimler Truck Holding AG shares until a bers of the Board of Management complied with the recom-
defined target volume of shares in Daimler Truck Holding AG is mendation. Since December10, 2021, the Rules of Procedure
reached and to hold the said shares for the duration of their of the Supervisory Board of Daimler Truck Holding AG stipulate
employment at the Group. This obligation formerly also applied that the initial appointment of members of the Board of Man-
to eligible PPSP participants at management level1, but has agement will henceforth be for a maximum of three years. A
meanwhile been cancelled. For other eligible PPSP partici- reappointment or extension of the term of office, in each case
pants, this obligation was and is not applicable. for a maximum of five years, is permissible.
Shareholdings exceeding10.00% of voting rights Pursuant to Section 31 Subsection 2 German Co-Determina-
As of December 31, 2022, Mercedes-Benz Group AG, with reg- tion Act (“MitbestG”), the Supervisory Board appoints the
istered office in Stuttgart, Germany, directly holds 23.44% of members of the Board of Management by a majority compris-
the voting rights in Daimler Truck Holding AG. In addition, ing at least two thirds of the votes of its members. If an
Mercedes-Benz Verwaltungsgesellschaft für Grundbesitz mbH, appointment is not made in this way, the Mediation Committee
with registered office in Schönefeld, Germany, a wholly-owned of the Supervisory Board will submit a proposal for the
subsidiary of Mercedes-Benz Group AG, holds 6.57% of the appointment to the Supervisory Board within one month of the
voting rights in Daimler Truck Holding AG as of the reporting vote in which the required majority was not achieved. The
date. The proportion of voting rights of Mercedes-Benz Supervisory Board then appoints the members of the Board of
Group AG directly and attributed via Mercedes-Benz Verwal- Management by a majority of the votes cast by its members. If
tungsgesellschaft für Grundbesitz mbH as subsidiary amounts an appointment is still not forthcoming, the Chairman of the
therefore to 30.01% of the voting rights. Supervisory Board then has two votes in a new vote. This pro-
cedure is to apply analogously to the revocation of the appoint-
In addition, voting rights in Daimler Truck Holding AG which ment of members of the Board of Management.
were transferred via Mercedes-Benz Pension Trust e.V. to an
investment fund at the end of January 2022 to secure pension
liabilities of Mercedes-Benz Group AG and Mercedes-Benz AG
are attributed to Mercedes-Benz Group AG in accordance with
Section 34 of the German Securities Trading Act (Wertpapier-
handelsgesetz or “WpHG”). According to the information in the
In accordance with Article 6 of the Articles of Incorporation, consent of the Supervisory Board, in the context of company
the Board of Management consists of at least two members. mergers and company acquisitions or can be sold against cash
The number of members is determined by the Supervisory payment to third parties at a price that is not significantly
Board. The Supervisory Board can appoint a Chairperson of lower than the stock exchange price at the time of the sale.
the Board of Management and a deputy Chairperson of the The acquired shares can also be used to fulfill obligations from
Board of Management. If a required member of the Board of issued convertible bonds and/or bonds with warrants and to
Management is absent, in urgent cases, the member will be be issued to employees of the Company and employees and
appointed pursuant to Section 85 Subsection1 of the German board members of affiliated companies within the meaning of
Stock Corporation Act (“AktG”) by the court at the request of Sections15 et seq. of the German Stock Corporation Act
one of the affected parties. The Supervisory Board can revoke (“AktG”). The treasury shares can also be canceled.
an appointment to the Board of Management and the appoint-
ment as Chairperson of the Board of Management in accor- During the term of the authorization, the total of treasury
dance with Section 84 Subsection 4 of the German Stock Cor- shares held by the Company used with the exclusion of share-
poration Act (“AktG”) if there is good cause to do so. holders’ subscription rights cannot account for more than
10.00% of the share capital at the time the authorization takes
Pursuant to Section179 Subsection1 Sentence1 of the Ger- effect or – if lower – at the time it is exercised. If, during the
man Stock Corporation Act (“AktG”), the Articles of Incorpora- term of the authorization until it is exercised, use is made of
tion can only be amended by a resolution of the General Meet- other authorizations to issue or sell shares in the Company or
ing. Unless binding provisions of the German Stock to issue rights enabling or obliging subscription to shares in
Corporation Act (“AktG”) or the Articles of Incorporation state the Company and shareholders’ subscription rights are
otherwise, resolutions of the General Meeting are adopted by excluded in this process, this is to be counted towards the
a simple majority of the votes cast in accordance with Section aforementioned10.00% limit.
133 of the German Stock Corporation Act (“AktG”) and Article
15 Paragraph 2 Sentence1 of the Articles of Incorporation. The Board of Management was authorized, with the consent of
Insofar as the German Stock Corporation Act (“AktG”) also the Supervisory Board, to acquire treasury shares up to a max-
requires a majority of the share capital represented when a imum of 5.00% of the share capital existing at the time this
resolution is adopted, a simple majority of the share capital authorization takes effect, also with the use of derivatives (put
represented will suffice in accordance with Article15 Subsec- and call options, forward purchases or a combination of these
tion 2 Sentence 2 of the Articles of Incorporation, insofar as instruments), whereby the term of the derivatives cannot
this is legally permissible. Pursuant to Article15 Paragraph 2 exceed18 months and has to be chosen in such manner that
Sentence 3 of the Articles of Incorporation, the dismissal of a the acquisition of the shares in exercise of the derivative does
member of the Supervisory Board elected by the shareholders not occur after October 31, 2026.
requires a majority of at least three quarters of the votes cast.
Pursuant to Section179 Subsection 2 of the German Stock No use was made of this authorization to acquire treasury
Corporation Act (“AktG”), a change in the objects of the Com- shares during the period under review.
pany requires, in addition to a simple majority of votes, a
majority of three quarters of the share capital represented; the By resolution of the Extraordinary General Meeting of Novem-
Articles of Incorporation do not make use of the possibility of ber 5, 2021, which also took effect on December 9, 2021, the
specifying a larger majority of the share capital for this pur- Board of Management was authorized, with the consent of the
pose. Pursuant to Article 9 Paragraph 8 of the Articles of Incor- Supervisory Board, to increase the share capital of Daimler
poration, the Supervisory Board can decide on amendments to Truck Holding AG on one or more occasions on or before Octo-
the Articles of Incorporation that only affect the wording. Pur- ber 31, 2026, in whole or in part, by up to a total of
suant to Section181 Subsection 3 of the German Stock Corpo- €329,180,752 by issuing new no-par-value registered shares in
ration Act (“AktG”), amendments to the Articles of Incorpora- exchange for cash contributions and/or non-cash contribu-
tion take effect upon entry in the commercial register. tions and, with the consent of the Supervisory Board, to
exclude shareholders’ subscription rights under certain condi-
Authority of the Board of Management to issue or repur- tions and within defined limits (“Approved Capital 2021”).
chase shares Under these defined conditions, subscription rights can be
By resolution of the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of excluded, among other things, in the case of capital increases
November 5, 2021, which took effect on December 9, 2021 against non-cash contributions for the purpose of acquiring a
upon implementation of the spin-off and hive-down agreement company and in the case of cash capital increases if the issue
of August 6, 2021, the Board of Management was authorized, price of the new shares is not significantly lower than the
with the consent of the Supervisory Board, to acquire the stock-market price of the shares already listed.
Company’s own shares (“treasury shares”) for any permissible
purpose until October 31, 2026, up to a maximum of10.00% of The sum of the shares issued against cash and/or non-cash
the share capital existing at the time the authorization takes contributions under this authorization with the exclusion of
effect or – if this value is lower – at the time the authorization shareholders’ subscription rights may not account for more
is exercised, and to use them for any other legally permissible than10.00% of the share capital at the time when this authori-
purpose in addition to selling them on the stock exchange or zation takes effect. This limit will include shares that (i) are
offering them to all shareholders in proportion to their share- issued or sold during the term of this authorization with the
holdings. The shares can be used, among other things, with the exclusion of subscription rights, and (ii) are issued or can or
exclusion of shareholders’ subscription rights and with the must be issued to service bonds with conversion or option
rights or conversion or option obligations, provided that the Other takeover-relevant information
bonds are issued after this authorization takes effect with the There are no shares that confer special rights of control.
exclusion of shareholders’ subscription rights. Employees who hold shares in Daimler Truck Holding AG exer-
cise their control rights in the same way as any other share-
The Approved Capital 2021 has not yet been utilized. holder in accordance with the legal provisions and the provi-
sions of the Articles of Incorporation. Furthermore, the
Material agreements subject to a change of control Company has not entered into any compensation agreements
The following significant agreements are in effect which con- with members of the Board of Management or employees in
tain provisions in the event of a change of control at Daimler the event of a takeover bid.
Truck Holding AG, such as may occur, among other things, as
the result of a takeover bid:
– a non-utilized syndicated credit facility totaling €5.0 billion
concluded in August 2021, and a non-utilized revolving facil-
ity of €1.0 billion concluded in September 2022. Both credit
facilities each provide for a right of termination by the lend-
ers in the event that (i) Daimler Truck Holding AG becomes a
subsidiary of another company or (ii) Daimler Truck Hold-
ing AG is controlled by one or more persons, acting either
individually or jointly. Subsidiary within the meaning of the
named credit facilities is understood as, in each case in rela-
tion to a company, another company (i) that is directly or
indirectly controlled by the first-mentioned company, (ii) in
which more than 50.00% of the subscribed capital (or other
equity) is held directly or indirectly by the first-mentioned
company, or (iii) which is a subsidiary of another subsidiary
of the first-mentioned company. Control within the meaning
of the syndicated credit facilities is understood as, in each
case, (i) the right to determine the affairs of a company,
(ii) the right to control the composition of the Board of Man-
agement or similar boards, or (iii) the right to control the
composition of the Supervisory Board (to the extent elected
by the shareholders).
– a trademark and domain use agreement between Daimler
Truck AG and Mercedes-Benz Intellectual Property GmbH &
Co. KG (formerly Daimler Brand & IP Management GmbH &
Co. KG), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mercedes-Benz
Group AG, which provides that in the event of the acquisition
of control by one or more third parties over Daimler
Truck AG, this agreement can be terminated. Termination
would have the consequence, among other things, that the
Mercedes-Benz brand transferred to Daimler Truck AG for
perpetual use and other licensed rights could no longer be
used after the expiry of the stipulated periods. Also in the
case of the sale or spin-off of business units of Daimler
Truck AG or parts thereof, the Mercedes-Benz brand and the
licensed rights can only continue to be used by the sold or
spun-off segment if a new license agreement is then con-
cluded with Mercedes-Benz Intellectual Property GmbH &
Co. KG. Mercedes-Benz Intellectual Property GmbH & Co.
KG will in good faith offer this kind of license agreement to
the sold or spun-off business unit if the latter ensures that
the quality requirements agreed between Daimler Truck AG
and Mercedes-Benz Intellectual Property GmbH & Co. KG
remain fulfilled and the reputation of the licensed rights con-
tinues to be safeguarded.
Risk and Opportunity Report
Risk and opportunity management
The Daimler Truck Group is exposed to a great number of
risks – risks associated with the business activities of Daimler system
Truck Holding AG and its subsidiaries and risks resulting from
external influences. A risk is defined as the danger that events,
developments or actions will prevent the Group or one of its The risk management system is intended to systematically
segments from achieving its goals. This includes financial and and continuously identify, assess, control, monitor and docu-
non-financial risks. At the same time, it is important to identify ment risks that endanger the Company’s continued existence
opportunities in order to ensure and enhance the competitive- and other significant risks to its success in order to support
ness of the Daimler Truck Group. An opportunity is defined as the achievement of corporate goals and to increase risk aware-
the possibility to take advantage of events, developments or ness throughout the Company. The risk and opportunity man-
actions to ensure successful achievement or to even exceed agement system is embedded in the value-based management
the planned goals of the Group or of a segment. and planning system of the Daimler Truck Group and is an inte-
gral part of the entire planning, control and reporting process
In order to identify, evaluate and actively manage entrepre- across the companies, segments and corporate functions.
neurial risks and opportunities at an early stage, effective man-
agement and control systems are used – these are pooled in a The opportunity management system at the Daimler Truck
so-called risk and opportunity management system. Risks and Group is based on the risk management system. The aim of
opportunities are not offset. opportunity management is to identify potential opportunities
in positive developments within business activities at an early
stage and to make the most of them for the Company by taking
B.73 appropriate measures. Seizing opportunities should result in
Assessment of probability of occurrence / possible impact planned goals being met or exceeded.
Level Probability of occurrence
As part of the planning process, risks and opportunities are
Low > 0% to 33%
tracked with an observation horizon of up to five years. The
Medium > 33% to 66%
reporting of risks and opportunities in the combined manage-
High > 66% to 100%
ment report generally covers one year. In this document, rele-
vant risks and opportunities are taken into consideration that
Level Possible impact
due to their scope have not already been taken into account in
Low > €0 to < €150 million
the reporting on the current situation or in the planning.
Medium ≥ €150 million to < €300 million
High ≥ €300 million
Risk assessment is based on the probability of occurrence and
the possible impact, and risks are classed as “low”, “medium”
or “high.” These levels are also the basis for assessing the
potential impact of opportunities. The probability of occur-
rence is not considered here. When assessing the extent of a
risk or opportunity – unless otherwise reported – its impact is
considered in relation to EBIT.
To quantify the risks and opportunities for each category in the
combined management report, the individual risks and oppor-
tunities are summarized for each category. The assessment of
the dimensions “probability of occurrence” and “possible
impact” is based on the classification shown in table  B.73
and takes place before planned measures.
In order to assess the Group’s risk-bearing capacity, the Unexpectedly occurring material risks must be reported imme-
potential effects of the risks on earnings, with consideration of diately. The segments pass along this information to the corpo-
correlation effects, are analyzed using a Monte Carlo simula- rate risk management unit, which presents it to the Board of
tion (confidence level: 99%). In the case of symmetrical risk Management and the Supervisory Board. The Group Risk Man-
and opportunity profiles, the potential effects on earnings of agement Committee (“GRMC”) is responsible for ensuring con-
the opportunities are also included. The aggregated risks and tinuous improvement and evaluating the appropriateness and
opportunities are compared with the reported equity of the effectiveness of the risk management system. The GRMC is
Daimler Truck Group as a risk cover. composed of representatives from Accounting & Result Man-
agement, the Legal department, Compliance, Group Security
Sustainability aspects are integrated into the Group-wide and Investor Relations & M&A, as well as of the CFOs of the
risk management process at Daimler Truck. These are condi- segments of Daimler Truck Holding AG. The GRMC is chaired
tions, events or developments relating to environment, social by the member of the Board of Management of Daimler Truck
aspects or corporate governance (environmental, social and Holding AG responsible for Finance & Controlling. The internal
governance – “ESG”), the occurrence of which may actually or Corporate Audit department contributes key findings about the
potentially affect the profitability, liquidity and capital internal control and risk management system.
resources, and financial position of the Daimler Truck Group
and its reputation. ESG-related risks and opportunities that are The internal control system with regard to the accounting
very likely to have a serious negative impact on non-financial process aims to ensure the correctness and effectiveness of
aspects in accordance with the CSR Directive Implementation accounting and financial reporting. It is designed in line with
Act (“CSR-RUG”), can be found in the respective categories of the internationally recognized framework for internal control
the risk and opportunity report according to their cause. systems of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (“COSO Internal Control – Integrated
Risk management is based on the principle of completeness, Framework”), is continually developed further and is an inte-
which means that all identified risks enter the risk manage- gral part of the accounting and financial reporting processes in
ment process at the level of the individual units. the relevant companies, organizational units and corporate
functions. The system includes principles and procedures as
The consolidated group for risk and opportunity management well as preventive and detective controls.
corresponds to the consolidated group of the financial state-
ments and, if necessary, goes beyond it. Risks and opportuni- The effectiveness of the internal control system is systemati-
ties for the segments and operating units, significant associ- cally assessed with regard to the accounting process. The first
ated companies, joint ventures and joint operations as well as step involves a risk analysis and a control definition with the
the corporate departments are included. aim of identifying significant risks for the accounting and finan-
cial reporting processes in the main companies, organizational
Furthermore, the employees responsible for risk management units and corporate functions. The controls required are then
have the task of defining measures and, if necessary, initiating defined and documented in accordance with the Group-wide
such measures to prevent, mitigate, or protect the Group guidelines. In order to assess the effectiveness of the controls,
against risks. Opportunity management involves implementing random samples are tested at regular intervals. These form the
measures with which opportunities can be seized, improved basis for a self-assessment as to whether the controls are
and (fully or partially) realized. The cost-effectiveness of a appropriate and effective. The results of this self-assessment
measure is assessed before it is implemented. The possible are documented and reported in a Group-wide IT system, and
extent and the probability of occurrence of all risks and oppor- identified control weaknesses are eliminated. The selected
tunities from the individual units as well as the respective mea- companies, organizational units and corporate functions con-
sures that have been initiated are continuously monitored. firm the effectiveness of the internal control system with
Control takes place in the Company at segment level, based on regard to the accounting process at the end of the annual
individual risks and opportunities. Daimler Truck Holding AG, cycle. The Board of Management and the Audit Committee of
the parent company of the Daimler Truck Group, monitors the Supervisory Board are regularly informed about potential
implementation by the segments as part of its regulatory, legal significant control weaknesses and the effectiveness of the
and compliance functions. control mechanisms that have been set up. However, the inter-
nal control system for the accounting process cannot ensure
The organizational embedding of risk and opportunity manage- with absolute certainty that fundamental misstatements in
ment is carried out by the risk management organization that accounting are always avoided.
has been established at the Group. The responsibility for oper-
ational risk management and for the risk management pro-
cesses is borne by the segments, corporate functions, organi-
zational units, and companies. They report on the concrete
risks and opportunities at regular intervals to their superordi-
nate units.
Industry and business risks and
The Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board of Daimler
Truck Holding AG is responsible for monitoring the internal opportunities
control and risk management system. The internal Corporate
Audit department checks whether the statutory framework
conditions and internal policies for the control and risk man- The following section describes the industry and business risks
agement system of the Group are being observed. Where nec- and opportunities for the Daimler Truck Group. A quantification
essary, measures are initiated in cooperation with the respec- of these risks and opportunities is shown in table  B.74.
tive management. The external auditor examines the early
warning system for risks integrated in the risk management Economic risks and opportunities
system and checks whether it is fundamentally able to detect Economic risks and opportunities constitute the framework for
risks threatening the continued existence of the Group at an the risks and opportunities listed in the following categories
early stage. He or she also reports to the Audit Committee and and are used as premises in the quantification of these risks
the Supervisory Board on any significant weaknesses found in and opportunities. The overall economic framework has a sig-
the internal control and risk management system. nificant influence on vehicle sales markets and thus on the
Group’s success. As a consequence, adverse economic devel-
The self-assessment of appropriateness and effectiveness opments, either globally or in the markets in which the Group
have not shown any evidence for the financial year that the operates, may result in substantially diminished demand for
entire internal control system or the risk management system the Group’s products. In addition, the commercial vehicle
are not appropriate or not effective, taking into account the industry is cyclical, which means that periods of investment in
scope of the Company’s business operations and risk posi- commercial vehicles are generally followed by slower periods
tion.1 in which demand levels decline. The length, timing and inten-
sity of specific demand cycles, which may affect individual
market segments, customer groups and regions in which the
Risks and opportunities
Group operates, are subject to uncertainty. Cyclical or variable
demand patterns may result in a prolonged or unexpected
The following section describes risks and opportunities that decline in demand for the Group’s products and services.
could have a significant impact on the profitability, liquidity
and capital resources, and financial position of the Daimler The economic development in 2022 is described in chapter
E
Truck Group. The reporting on risks and opportunities gener- Economic Conditions and Business Development of the
ally takes place in relation to the individual segments. If no combined management report. Growth assumptions and fore-
segment is explicitly mentioned, the risks and opportunities casts for the overall development in 2023 are discussed in
E
described apply to all segments. chapter Outlook of the combined management report.
When assessing risks and opportunities, we generally consider A major risk for the development of the global economy is the
both gross and net values. The gross opportunities and risks further development and potential further escalation of the
are presented below. Russia-Ukraine war or, in the worst case, its expansion to
other countries. The most significant risks as a consequence of
In addition to the risks and opportunities described below, the Russia-Ukraine war are described in the section “Risks
other risks that are not yet known to the Group or have been relating to the legal and political framework.”
classified as insignificant may affect the Daimler Truck Group’s
profitability, liquidity and capital resources, and financial posi-
tion in the future.
1 The content of this section was not subject to an audit of its contents in
the context of the statutory external audit of our combined management
report.
B.74
Industry and business risks/opportunities
Risk category Probability of occurrence Impact Opportunity category Impact
General market risks Low High General market opportunities High
Risks relating to the legal Opportunities relating to the legal
and political framework Medium High and political framework -
Risks from the procurement market Low High Opportunities from the procurement market High
Higher Inflation in the USA and Europe than expected in chap- The European market is of great importance for the Daimler
E
ter Outlook of the combined management report could Truck Group, so changes in investment and consumer behavior
cause the central banks to raise base interest rates to a will affect the development of unit sales. In the European
greater extent than expected. Such an increase in interest Union (“EU”), the risk of political conflict is increased due to
rates would likely put pressure on the financial markets and the Russia-Ukraine war. The risks triggered by the Rus-
weaken the economic recovery as well as raising financing sia-Ukraine war are described in the section “Risks relating to
costs for borrowers in the debt capital markets, including the the legal and political framework” below.
Daimler Truck Group. These developments would result in
weaker consumption and investment activity and would go In the USA, since November 2021 a trillion-dollar infrastruc-
hand in hand with a correspondingly weaker business develop- ture program “Build Back Better Plan” was agreed. This is cre-
ment for all segments of the Daimler Truck Group. Further- ating opportunities for economic development in the transport
more, the increasing burden of interest and repayments of and construction sectors. Should this lead to significantly more
loans could limit the scope of companies, including the Daimler dynamic consumption and investment activity, demand for
Truck Group, for future investments and thus put a strain on products from the Daimler Truck Group could rise. Since the
future economic activity. Lower investment activity would have Daimler Truck Group already generates a substantial propor-
a negative impact on the Daimler Truck Group’s sales. tion of its revenue in the USA, these developments would sig-
nificantly benefit the Group. Furthermore, stronger economic
At the country level, especially emerging economies (e.g., growth in the USA would have spillover effects on the rest of
Turkey or Brazil) with high foreign debt and high current the world. However, increasing domestic political tensions in
account deficits could come under pressure, resulting in signif- the USA could unsettle consumers and investors and dampen
icant currency devaluations. Financial market turbulence and economic growth accordingly.
even currency crises would be possible consequences and
could put a massive strain on the economy in the affected General market risks and opportunities
economies, which would have a negative effect on the Group’s
sales prospects. The risks and opportunities for economic development in the
vehicle markets are significantly influenced by the global eco-
The unresolved trade conflict between the USA and China, nomic situation described above. The assessment of market
which has been going on for several years now, continues to risks and opportunities is linked to assumptions and forecasts
pose a significant risk to the further development of global about the overall market development in the regions in which
trade. More and more areas are now affected by the conflict, the Daimler Truck Group is active. The possibility of markets
and there is a threat of increasing technological and economic developing better or worse than assumed or of market condi-
decoupling of the two countries. tions changing is present for all segments of the Daimler Truck
Group.
In addition to the existing protectionist measures such as spe-
cific market access barriers, sanctions or industrial policy Potential risks for the development of sales are simulated in
demands for higher local value added, there is also the risk of risk scenarios. A lack of market acceptance of certain vehicle
exacerbation or abrupt interventions with effects on the pro- models in individual regions can have a negative impact on
curement of required commodities and materials for produc- profitability. Declining vehicle sales may also result from the
tion and sales. Together with the aforementioned risks, the sometimes-unstable macroeconomic environment and arise in
resulting impact on the supply chains and ultimately the the context of political or economic uncertainty. This applies in
effects on general pricing for raw materials, upstream products particular to the traditional cyclical construction and logistics
and finished products, this may lead to higher costs at Daimler industry and the corresponding influence on Daimler Truck unit
Truck and have a negative impact on economic development sales. Rising oil prices and volatile exchange rates can also
and sales opportunities. In return, unforeseen trade easings lead to market uncertainty and thus to a falling demand for
could generate positive impulses and lead to more trade and vehicles. Moreover there is the risk that high demand cannot
higher growth. In this case, the Daimler Truck Group could also be met in a timely manner due to supply chain constraints. The
benefit. developments of markets, unit sales and inventory are continu-
ally monitored and analyzed by the segments. Where neces-
sary, specific marketing and sales programs are implemented.
Volatilities with regard to market developments can also lead In connection with leasing agreements, risks arise if the resale
to the overall market or regional framework conditions for the value of a leased vehicle at the end of the agreed term differs
commercial vehicle industry developing better than assumed from the residual value originally calculated and forecast at the
in the internal forecasts and premises, resulting in business time the contract was signed and the leasing rate was agreed
opportunities in the market. Opportunities may also arise from upon. There are risks linked to negative developments in the
an improvement in the competitive situation or a positive used vehicle markets and associated with vehicles’ residual
development of demand. Realization of the opportunities is values. In order to counteract these risks, residual value man-
supported by sales and marketing campaigns. agement processes have been established. Depending on the
region and the current market situation, the measures taken
Due to the at times difficult financial situation of some dealer- generally include continuous market monitoring and, where
ships and vehicle importers, support from the Daimler Truck necessary, pricing strategies or sales-promoting measures to
Group may become necessary to ensure business partners regulate vehicle stocks. The quality of market forecasts is veri-
stay afloat. The financial situation of strategically relevant deal- fied by regular comparisons of internal and external sources,
erships and vehicle importers is continuously monitored. The and residual values are adjusted as necessary and further
loss of important dealerships and vehicle importers can lead to developed with regard to methods, processes and systems.
customer dissatisfaction and a decline in unit sales. Meeting
costs where contracts are canceled and having to process out- The Daimler Truck Group’s service business (including both
standing customer contracts where dealerships go out of busi- aftersales services and financial services) is a key contributor
ness may become necessary and have a negative impact on to the Daimler Truck Group’s success and competitiveness, but
profitability. may not generate the revenues and profitability that the
Daimler Truck Group expects for a number of reasons, includ-
The launch of new products by competitors, a more aggressive ing: Declines in unit sales of new vehicles; changes in eco-
pricing policy and more difficult net pricing in the sales and nomic conditions encouraging customers to become more
aftersales business can lead to increasing competitive and price-conscious and less willing to commit to long-term ser-
price pressure in the vehicle segments and have a negative vice contracts; a large proportion of customers deciding to
impact on profitability. Competitors are continually monitored move their aftersales maintenance needs in-house or to other
in order to identify these risks at an early stage. Depending on providers; changes in customer preferences for connectivity
the situation, product-specific and possibly regionally differing and other digital services, including offerings from third-party
measures are taken to support markets with weaker sales. In software and hardware developers; or competitive pressure
addition, the Daimler Truck Group has introduced various forcing the Daimler Truck Group to reduce the prices it charges
sales-promotional programs that include financial incentives for aftersales services and/or parts, thereby reducing the
for customers. Group’s margins and profitability.
When purchasing vehicles from the Daimler Truck Group, cus- Risks and opportunities related to legal and political
tomers are offered a wide range of financing and leasing framework conditions
options. The resulting risks for the Financial Services segment
lie primarily in a deterioration of the creditworthiness of bor- Around the world, the commercial vehicle industry is subject to
rowers, i.e., receivables may become fully or partially irrecov- far-reaching statutory requirements. Legal and political frame-
erable due to the insolvency of customers (counterparty or work conditions have a considerable influence on the future
credit risk). The Daimler Truck Group counters credit risks with business success of the Daimler Truck Group. Regulations con-
credit checks based on standardized scoring and rating proce- cerning vehicles emissions, fuel consumption, safety and certi-
dures, the collateralization of receivables and an effective risk fication, as well as customs procedures, play a particularly
management system with a strong focus on monitoring both important role.
internal and macroeconomic early warning indicators.
Many countries and regions have already implemented stricter
regulations to reduce the emissions and fuel consumption
of vehicles or are currently in the process of introducing such
legal requirements. They address, for instance, the environ-
mental compatibility of vehicles, including limits on noise emis-
sions, as well as pollutants from the emissions caused by pro-
duction facilities. Failure to comply with the relevant
regulations in the individual regions may result in considerable
penalties and reputational risks and can even lead to vehicles
no longer being street legal in the affected markets.
The regulations described for reducing vehicle emissions and Furthermore, the position of the Daimler Truck Group in key
fuel consumption are also fraught with risks for Daimler Truck, foreign markets could be affected by the conclusion or amend-
as the strict legal requirements will be difficult to meet in some ment of free trade agreements. If free trade agreements are
countries. This primarily affects the markets of the USA, concluded without the participation of countries with Daimler
Europe, Japan and, increasingly in the future, China. The ambi- Truck Group production sites, the Group could face a competi-
tious targets, especially in Europe, cannot be achieved with tive disadvantage compared with competitors who produce in
conventional technology alone. The Daimler Truck Group must the countries that are part of the free trade agreement. In
therefore use the latest technology in order to meet these addition, if the content of the free trade agreements currently
requirements. The EU fleet targets for 2025 and 2030 already used by the Daimler Truck Group is made significantly stricter
require significant reductions in CO -emissions that can only or the conditions of future free trade agreements are more
2
be achieved using battery-electric or fuel-cell based drive sys- restrictive, this could also significantly impair the competitive
tems and with higher costs. position of the Daimler Truck Group, as the Group would no
longer or only partially benefit from those free trade agree-
Phases of political uncertainty may generally have negative ments. At the same time, however, the conclusion of new free
effects on consumption and investment decisions by house- trade agreements could also create opportunities for the
holds and companies and consequently have a negative impact Daimler Truck Group vis-à-vis competitors, provided that the
on the economic development and sales opportunities of the competitors do not produce in the countries concerned, but
Daimler Truck Group. If, however, concerted stimuli in the EU – the Daimler Truck Group does.
especially the EU recovery instrument – have a greater effect
than currently assumed, this could lead to a recovery in There is a risk that individual countries will increasingly resort
growth, resulting in positive effects on companies and house- to interventionist and protectionist measures in an attempt
holds. to protect or improve their competitiveness on the world mar-
ket. The vehicle industry, including the commercial vehicle
Far-reaching risks may continue to arise from the Russia- industry, is often seen as a key sector for generating domestic
Ukraine war. The war could have a negative impact on the investments and increasing local value added along the entire
development of unit sales, production processes, and procure- value chain. This can lead to increased costs if production
ment and logistics, for example through interruptions in supply facilities have to be set up or expanded or local purchasing has
chains or energy supply, or shortages of commodities, parts to be increased. Cutting technological and economic links
and components, in each case triggered by the war itself or by between major markets can also have an impact on earnings if
the comprehensive sanctions imposed on Russia by various research and development have to be conducted locally or
members of the international community. The war in Ukraine value chains have to be adjusted because certain technologies
could escalate further and, in the worst case, spread to other cannot legally be used in the end products. Furthermore,
countries. Such an expansion would pose a significant risk to attempts are being made to limit imports through market
Daimler Truck’s market environment. access barriers such as by making certification processes
more difficult, delaying certifications, and imposing complex
The potential interruptions of supply chains and shortages of customs procedures as well as tariffs.
commodities, parts or components may result in further
increases in energy and commodity prices and the prices of In addition, traffic policy restrictions to combat traffic jams,
parts and components, which could result in higher costs. Fur- noise and emissions are becoming increasingly important in
thermore, as a result of higher inflation, the Group’s cost base cities and metropolitan areas around the world. Although they
in general might be negatively affected. In addition, rising refi- can dampen the sales development of conventional vehicles,
nancing costs in the capital markets may lead to negative they can also create demand for vehicles with alternative drive
effects on Financial Services interest costs. systems.
Daimler Truck continuously monitors the development of the
legal and political framework conditions and tries to anticipate
foreseeable requirements and long-term objectives at an early
stage in the process of product development.
Procurement market risks and opportunities In general, the ability to pass on increases in commodity, parts
and component prices in the form of higher prices for manu-
For the Industrial Business, risks and opportunities on the pro- factured vehicles is limited because of strong competitive
curement side are mainly due to fluctuations in raw material pressure on the international commercial vehicles markets.
and energy prices. Financial bottlenecks at suppliers, capacity Rising commodity prices may therefore have a negative impact
restrictions due to supplier failure or exits, limited scope for on the profit margins of the vehicles sold and thus lead to a
negotiating prices of supplied parts, and the over- or underutili- decline in profitability for the respective segment.
zation of production capacities at suppliers can also lead to
reduced earnings. For some suppliers, the financial situation remains tense due
to the market environment. The resulting possible production
The Industrial Business of the Daimler Truck Group requires downtimes at suppliers may cause supply chain disruptions in
certain commodities, parts and components for the construc- the vehicle divisions of the Daimler Truck Group and prevent
tion of vehicle parts and vehicles. These include steel, copper, vehicles from being completed and delivered to customers on
aluminum, precious metals, rubber, plastics, particularly within time. In order to counteract such disruptions in the supply
parts and components containing these and other raw materi- chains, support measures may be necessary to ensure produc-
als. The cost of such commodities, parts and components rep- tion and sales by suppliers. Supplier risk management aims to
resents a significant portion of the Daimler Truck Group’s total identify potential financial bottlenecks for suppliers at an
costs. The Daimler Truck Group procures raw materials, parts early stage and to initiate suitable countermeasures. Taking
and components from several suppliers. However, for the into account the warning signals recorded and the internal
majority of parts, the Daimler Truck Group relies on a specific classification, this involves regular reporting of key perfor-
supplier for each individual part (also referred to as “single mance indicators to the Daimler Truck Group and, where nec-
sourcing”). In these cases, the Daimler Truck Group faces the essary, support measures for the suppliers can be determined.
risk of production downtime and inventory backlogs if one or
more suppliers are unable or unwilling to fulfill delivery obliga- Finally, rapidly rising demand for certain new technologies,
tions, for example due to supply shortages, labor strikes, such as electrified powertrains, could require significant
capacity allocation to other customers, or financial distress of changes to the Daimler Truck Group’s supply chain and result
the supplier. in higher product costs and supply bottlenecks. An increasing
shift to e-mobility and digitalization throughout the industry
The Daimler Truck Group has been and may continue to be has resulted and is expected to continue to result in long-term
acutely affected by an ongoing global shortage of semicon- increases in demand for battery cells, semiconductors and cer-
ductors, which must be purchased on the global market. The tain critical materials, such as lithium, necessary to manufac-
semiconductor shortage has for some time had, and will likely ture them. Due to the limited pool of suppliers, price increases
continue to have, a material impact on the Daimler Truck and constraints in the supply of these materials have occurred
Group’s ability to manufacture vehicles. If the supply con- and may continue to occur, which would limit the Daimler
straints for semiconductors is resolved more quickly than Truck Group’s ability to meet demand for its current generation
expected, then this would result in opportunities with an of vehicles (including its vehicles with conventional combus-
impact on production and sales. If the availability however tion engine) or commercialize its new zero-emission vehicles
should worsen, this would have a significant adverse effect on (“ZEV”) profitably (or at all).
the number of vehicles completed and their timely delivery.
The prices of commodities, parts and components are suscep-
tible to significant and at times sharp fluctuations, including as
a result of global or regional supply/demand dynamics in the
commodities markets and end markets, production capacity
and constraints on the part of suppliers, transportation costs
and issues, energy prices, infrastructure failures, government
regulations and tariffs, geopolitical events, changes in currency
exchange rates, price controls, the economic climate including
inflationary pressure, and other unforeseen circumstances.
Prices on the commodities market were negatively affected as
a result of Russia’s complete suspension of natural gas sup-
plies to Germany in connection with the Russia-Ukraine war,
prices on the commodity market in the euro zone were nega-
tively affected. A further shortage and increase in the price of
energy and raw materials, could have a direct negative impact
on the Daimler Truck production at German sites or cause dis-
ruptions in the supply chains. Risks and opportunities for the
Daimler Truck Group in this connection must be classified as
high.
B.75
Company-specific risks / opportunities
Risk category Probability of occurrence Impact Opportunity category Impact
Production and technology risks Low High Production and technology opportunities Medium
Information technology risks Low Medium Information technology opportunities –
Personnel risks Medium Low Personnel opportunities –
Risks related to associated companies and Opportunities related to associated companies
joint ventures Low Low and joint ventures –
Company-specific risks and opportunities
In principle, there is a risk of internal bottlenecks due to low
equipment availability or failures of production plants or fac-
The following section covers Company-specific risks and tories, which would result in costs. A prolonged disruption at a
opportunities of the Daimler Truck Group. A quantification of manufacturing facility could result in production downtimes or
these risks and opportunities is shown in table  B.75. temporary operation at reduced capacity preventing the
Daimler Truck Group from completing production orders in a
Production and technology risks and opportunities timely manner. Loss of business volume, reduced productivity
Technical developments and innovations are of key importance or profitability at a particular production site and significant
for the safe and sustainable mobility of the future. Through the repair costs that are not covered by the Daimler Truck Group’s
design of the product range, technical innovations are inte- insurance coverage. Production facilities are continuously
grated into the strategic product planning of the vehicle seg- maintained and modernized. As a precaution, spare parts are
ments. Technology risks can arise especially as a result of kept on hand for potentially affected systems, and spare
increasing technical complexity, the continually growing range machines are procured as necessary.
of requirements that need to be met regarding emissions, fuel
consumption and safety and the need to meet and constantly Capacity restrictions on the availability of batteries for certain
raise the quality standards of the Daimler Truck Group. These vehicle models, interruptions in the supply chain and possible
risks are prevalent in the automotive business, particularly interruptions of supply by energy providers can lead to bottle-
with regard to launching and manufacturing products. In the necks. New technical requirements may also lead to restric-
context of the future transformation to zero-emission vehicles tions on the sale of vehicles that have already been produced.
and the approach pursued by Daimler Truck, which focuses on Restrictions on certain equipment features in new vehicle
the development, production and sales of battery-electric and models and the lack of availability of vehicle parts at the right
hydrogen-based drive systems, this would result in high risks time could also mean that the vehicles cannot be handed over
and also opportunities in relation to production, operation and to customers as planned. In order to avoid such bottleneck
warranties. Daimler Truck Group’s future success depends on situations, it is important that capacity bottlenecks can be
its ability to correctly assess and respond to the ZEV transfor- compensated for by forward-looking planning. In addition, as
mation with innovative, commercially attractive products and part of the management of the entire value chain, supply
services that are able to compete in the market. Other decisive routes as well as the availability and quality of products are
factors for successful conversion to ZEV’s are customer accep- continuously monitored. As a risk prevention measure, a sup-
tance, continued governmental support, sufficient publicly plier management system is in place to ensure the quantity
available charging infrastructure and hydrogen or energy at and quality of the components required to manufacture the
competitive prices, all of which are subject to uncertainty and vehicles. Lack of availability and quality problems with certain
to a large extent outside of Daimler Truck’s control. vehicle parts can lead to production downtimes and higher
costs.
When a product is launched in the vehicle segments, the
required components and equipment have to be available. In The Daimler Truck Group is subject to risks relating to devia-
order to avoid restrictions in this context, the associated pro- tion from planning in connection with large projects, including
cesses are continuously evaluated and improved. In order to the development and launch of new vehicle generations, vehi-
secure and improve the long-term future viability of production cles or powertrains. This may especially be the case when cap-
facilities in the vehicle segments, modernizations as well as ital-intensive projects, such as factory buildouts or capacity
expansion, development and restructuring activities are car- expansions, e.g., the introduction of a new production line, are
ried out as required. The implementation of modernization required. These risks may result from a number of factors,
measures and the launch of new products are usually asso- including inaccurate assumptions with respect to planning and
ciated with high investments. This can also lead to inefficien- implementation costs, unexpected technical challenges, weak-
cies in the production process and, as a result, to a temporary nesses in project design and management, and poor perfor-
reduction in production volumes. mance of third-party suppliers and business partners. These
factors could result in significant cost overruns, delays in new
product launches, delivery delays, quality issues and damage
to customer relationships.
Warranty and goodwill cases could arise in the Daimler Truck Appropriately secure IT systems and a reliable IT infrastructure
Group if the quality of products does not meet the require- must be used to protect information. Cyber threats must be
ments, regulations are not fully complied with, or support in identified over the entire lifecycle of applications and IT sys-
the event of problems and product care cannot be provided in tems, and dealt with in line with their criticality. Particular
the required form. Such warranty and goodwill cases as well as attention is paid to risks that could, at worst, result in an inter-
quality problems both with components in vehicles and in con- ruption of business processes due to IT system failures and/or
nection with technical innovations on vehicles that require the loss and corruption of data. The advancing digitalization
adjustments can lead to financial burdens. Possible claims in and connectivity of production equipment is supplemented by
connection with such risks are examined and, if necessary, coordinated technical and organizational security measures.
appropriate measures are initiated for the affected products.
Due to growing demands concerning the confidentiality, integ-
Information technology risks and opportunities rity and availability of data, Daimler Truck has implemented a
wide range of preventive and corrective measures in order to
The systematically pursued digitalization strategy opens up minimize the associated risks and limit possible damage. For
new opportunities for Daimler Truck and allows it to enhance example, the Group reduces potential interruptions of operat-
customer benefits and the value of the Company. Neverthe- ing processes in data centers by means of mirrored data sets,
less, the high penetration level of information technology (“IT”) decentralized data storage, outsourced data backups and IT
in all business areas also harbors risks for business and pro- systems designed for high availability. Emergency plans are
duction processes as well as for their services and products. developed and employees are trained and regularly sensitized
in order to maintain operating capability. Specific threats are
The ever-growing threat posed by cybercrime and the spread analyzed, and countermeasures are coordinated at a globally
of aggressive malicious code give rise to risks that can affect active Cyber Security & Response Center. The protection of
the availability, integrity and confidentiality of information and products and services against the danger of falling prey to
IT-supported operating resources. Despite extensive precau- hacker attacks and cybercrime is under constant development.
tions, in the worst-case scenario, this can lead to a temporary
interruption of IT-supported business processes with severe Personnel risks and opportunities
negative effects on the Group’s earnings. In addition, the loss
or misuse of sensitive data may under certain circumstances The Daimler Truck Group is dependent on good relationships
lead to a loss of reputation. In particular, applicable regulatory with its employees, their trade unions as well as employee
requirements such as the EU General Data Protection Directive representative bodies and stakeholders and is party to a
(“EU-GDPR”) may, among other things, give rise to claims by number of collective agreements, some of which impose obli-
third parties and result in costly regulatory requirements and gations and restrictions on the Daimler Truck Group in connec-
penalties with an impact on earnings. tion with reorganizations, restructurings or similar corporate
actions and which it may not be able to extend, renew or
For the globally active Daimler Truck Group and its comprehen- replace in a favorable or timely manner or at all. Any deteriora-
sive business and production processes, it is of vital impor- tion of the relationships with trade unions, works councils and
tance that information is available, up-to-date, complete and other employee representative bodies could adversely impact
correct and that it can be exchanged as needed. The Group’s the Daimler Truck Group’s business operations. The Group
internal IT security framework is based on international stan- could face strikes or other types of conflicts with trade unions,
dards and uses industrial standards and good practice as part works councils or its employees in the future. Any such strikes,
of its protective measures. New regulatory requirements for conflicts, work stoppages or other industrial actions may dis-
cyber security and cyber security management systems are rupt the Group’s production and sales activities, damage its
taken into account in the further development of our processes reputation and adversely affect its customer relations.
and policies.
Competition for highly qualified employees and managers con- Risks and opportunities related to associated companies
tinues to be very fierce in the industry and the regions in which and joint ventures
Daimler Truck operates. The future success of the Daimler
Truck Group also depends on the extent to which it succeeds Cooperation with partners in associated companies and joint
in recruiting, integrating and retaining specialist staff. The ventures is of vital importance for Daimler Truck, in the trans-
established human resources instruments take such personnel formation towards both zero-emission mobility and compre-
risks into consideration. A particular focus of human resources hensive digitalization. Particularly in the case of new technolo-
management is the targeted personnel development and fur- gies, associated companies can help boost synergy effects and
ther training of the Company’s workforce. In order to remain improve cost structures in order to successfully face the com-
successful as a company, we continuously develop the way we petition in the commercial vehicle industry.
work together and optimize our management culture.
The Daimler Truck Group generally participates in the risks and
Demographic developments are forcing the Group to deal opportunities of associated companies and joint ventures in
with changes caused by an aging workforce and to secure a line with its equity interest. It is also subject to share-price
skilled new generation of specialists and future executives. risks and opportunities if those companies are listed on the
Generation management addresses this by implementing mea- stock exchange.
sures that do justice to the scope of the issue. We counter eco-
nomic, market and competitive fluctuations with the estab- The remeasurement of an interest in an associated company
lished time and flexibility instruments, enabling reactions that can result in risks and opportunities related to the invest-
are suitable for the respective situation. ment’s carrying amount for the segment to which the associ-
ated company belongs. Risks can also arise from ongoing busi-
Efficiency improvements and cost savings are crucial for ness activities, especially through the integration of
the Group to maintain its competitiveness and improve its prof- employees, technologies and products. The Group’s business
itability. The Group is in the midst of implementing a number of and legal interests may not always be aligned with those of its
operational performance and cost-saving initiatives to address associated companies and joint ventures and any of the
fixed and variable costs affecting profitability. These opera- Group’s current or future associated companies or joint ven-
tional performance and cost-saving measures, or components tures may fail to be successful, achieve their planned objec-
thereof, may not deliver the intended benefits within the time tives and meet their targeted timelines. In addition, further
the Group targets. This may result in implementation costs in financial obligations or additional financing requirements could
excess of those originally budgeted by the Group and the arise. Associated companies are subject to a monitoring pro-
actual results of the initiatives may differ from the targets. If cess so that, if necessary, decisions can be promptly made on
the targeted operational performance and cost-saving mea- whether or not measures should be taken to support or secure
sures are not fully realized or achieved within the intended profitability. The recoverable amounts of investments in asso-
time, this could have an adverse effect on the Group’s profit ciated companies are also regularly monitored.
margins.
Financial risks and opportunities
Exchange rate risks and opportunities
The following section deals with the financial risks and oppor- The Group’s global orientation means that its business opera-
tunities of the Daimler Truck Group. tions and financial transactions are linked to risks and opportu-
nities related to fluctuations in exchange rates.
Risks and opportunities can have a negative or positive effect
on the Group’s profitability, liquidity and capital resources, and This applies in particular to fluctuations in the US dollar, the
financial position. The probability of occurrence and impact of British pound, the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen and other
these risks and opportunities are listed in table  B.76. currencies, against the euro. An exchange rate risk or opportu-
nity arises in business operations primarily when revenue is
In principle, the Group’s operating and financial risk exposures, generated in a different currency from that of the related costs
on which the financial risks and opportunities are based can be (“transaction risk”).
divided into symmetrical and asymmetrical risk and opportu-
nity profiles. With the symmetrical risk and opportunity pro- While production costs are incurred primarily in US dollars,
files (e.g., currency exposures), risks and opportunities are euros and yen, a portion of revenue is generated in other cur-
equally present, while with the asymmetrical profiles (e.g., rencies. Daimler Truck is exposed to this type of transaction
credit and country exposures), the risks outweigh the opportu- risk, but only to a lesser extent thanks to its global production
nities. network. Regularly updated currency risk exposures are suc-
cessively hedged with suitable financial instruments (predomi-
Daimler Truck is fundamentally exposed to risks and opportu- nantly currency forwards) in accordance with exchange rate
nities arising from changes in market prices such as exchange expectations, which are continually reviewed, limiting both
rates, interest rates and commodity prices. Changes in market risks and opportunities. Any overcollateralization caused by
prices can have a negative or positive effect on the Group’s changes in exposure is generally resolved promptly using
profitability, financial and asset position. appropriate measures. There are also exchange rate risks and
opportunities related to the translation of the net assets,
Daimler Truck systematically controls and monitors market income and expenses of companies of the Group outside the
price risks and opportunities, primarily as part of its business euro zone (“translation risk”), against which the Group gener-
operations and financing activities and applies derivative finan- ally does not hedge.
cial instruments for hedging purposes where necessary, thus
limiting both market price risks and opportunities.
The Group is also exposed to credit, country and liquidity risks,
and risks from changes in credit ratings. As part of the risk
management process, Daimler Truck regularly assesses these
risks by considering changes in key economic indicators and
market information. Plan assets to cover pension and health
care benefits (market-sensitive investments, including equity
and interest-bearing securities) are not included in the follow-
ing analysis.
B.76
Financial risks and opportunities
Risk category Probability of occurrence Impact Opportunity category Impact
Exchange rate risks Low Medium Exchange rate opportunities Medium
Interest rate risks Low Low Interest rate opportunities Low
Commodity price risks Low High Commodity price opportunities HIgh
Credit risks Low Low Credit opportunities –
Country risks Low Low Country opportunities –
Risks related to changes in credit ratings Low Low Opportunities related to changes in credit ratings Low
Risks related to pension plans Low Low Opportunities related to pension plans Low
Interest rate risks and opportunities Country risks
Country risk describes the risk of a financial loss resulting
Changes in interest rates can create risks and opportunities for from changes in political, economic, legal or social conditions
both business operations and financial transactions. Daimler in the respective country, for example due to sovereign mea-
Truck employs a variety of interest rate-sensitive financial sures such as expropriation or a ban on currency transfers.
instruments to meet the liquidity requirements of its business Daimler Truck is subject to country risks, which primarily result
operations on a day-to-day basis. Most of these financial from cross-border financing or collateralization for Group com-
instruments are linked to the financial services business of panies or customers, from investments in subsidiaries or joint
Financial Services. Interest rate risks and opportunities arise ventures, and from cross-border trade receivables.
when fixed interest periods between the assets and liabilities
side of the balance sheet are incongruent. By means of refi- Further information on country risks in the context of the dis-
nancing coordinated with the terms of the financing agree- closure of events after the reporting period can be found in
E
ments, the risk of maturity mismatch is minimized from both Note 41 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addi-
an interest-rate and a liquidity point of view. Remaining inter- tion, country risks also arise from cross-border investments in
est rate risks are managed through the use of derivative finan- financial institutions. The Group addresses these risks by set-
cial instruments. Measures for raising capital for the industrial ting country limits (e.g., for hard currency portfolios of Finan-
and financial services businesses are coordinated centrally at cial Services companies). The Group also has an internal rating
Group level. Derivative interest rate instruments, such as inter- system, in which all countries in which Daimler Truck operates
est rate swaps, are used to achieve the desired fixed interest are divided into risk classes.
rates and asset/liability structures (“asset and liability man-
agement”). Risks and opportunities from changes to credit ratings
Risks and opportunities exist in possible downgrades or
Commodity price risks and opportunities upgrades to credit ratings assigned by the rating agencies to
As described in the section on procurement market risks and Daimler Truck Holding AG (and thus to the Group’s creditworthi-
opportunities, Daimler Truck is exposed to risks from changes ness) or to bonds issued or guaranteed by members of the
in commodity prices. A small proportion of the commodity Daimler Truck Group. Downgrades may adversely affect the
price risks, primarily from the planned purchase of certain Group’s financing if they increase the cost of borrowing or limit
metals, can be reduced through the use of derivative financial the Group’s financing options. In addition, downgrades may dis-
instruments. courage investors from investing in Daimler Truck Holding AG.
Credit risks
Credit risk describes the risk of a financial loss resulting from a
counterparty failing to meet its contractual payment obliga-
tions. Credit risk encompasses both the direct risk of default
and the risk of a deterioration of creditworthiness as well as
concentration risks.
The Group is subject to credit risks, which result primarily from
the financial services business and the operations of the vehi-
cle business. The risks from leasing and sales financing are
addressed in the section on general market risks and opportu-
nities.
Credit risks also arise from the Group’s liquidity investments.
Should payment defaults occur, this would adversely affect the
Group’s profitability, liquidity and capital resources, and finan-
cial position. The limit methodology for liquidity investments
with financial institutions has been continuously developed over
the past few years. When making investment decisions, the bor-
rower’s outstanding creditworthiness and balanced risk diversi-
fication are considered key. The majority of liquid assets are
held in investments with an external investment-grade rating.
Legal and tax risks and opportunities
Risks and opportunities relating to pension plans
Daimler Truck has defined benefit pension commitments and,
to a small extent, additional obligations for healthcare benefits, The Group is also exposed to legal and tax risks. It recognizes
which are largely covered by plan assets. The balance of pen- provisions for these risks if and to the extent that those provi-
sion obligations and plan assets constitutes the carrying sions are likely to be utilized and the amount of the obligations
amount or funded status for these employee benefit plans. The can be determined with sufficient accuracy.
measurement of pension obligations and the calculation of net
pension expense are based on assumptions. Even small Legal risks
changes in those assumptions, e.g. a change in the discount
rate, have a negative or positive effect on the funded status Regulatory risks
and Group equity for the current financial year and, if they The vehicle industry, and hence also the commercial vehicle
occur, lead to a change in the period-related net pension industry is subject to national regulations all over the world.
expense in the following financial year. The fair value of plan Legislation in various jurisdictions regulates the occupant
assets is largely determined by developments on the capital safety and environmental impact of trucks, buses and other
markets. Unfavorable or favorable developments, especially in vehicles, including emission levels, fuel economy and noise lev-
shares and marketable debt securities, reduce or increase the els, as well as the emissions of the factories in which the vehi-
carrying amount of plan assets. A change in the composition of cles or parts thereof are manufactured. Failure to comply with
plan assets can also have a positive or negative impact on their relevant regulations in individual regions may result in signifi-
fair value. The broad diversification of investments, the selec- cant penalties and reputational risks, and the non-approval of
tion of asset managers based on quantitative and qualitative products in the affected markets.
analyses and the ongoing monitoring of returns and risk con-
tribute to reducing the investment risk. The structure of pen- To maintain high quality standards for its products and to com-
sion obligations is taken into account when determining the ply with government-prescribed safety and other standards,
investment strategy for plan assets in order to reduce fluctua- the Group incurs substantial costs for monitoring, certification
tions in the funded status. and quality assurance. Meeting government-mandated vehicle
standards is costly and often technologically challenging, par-
Further information on the pension plans and their risks can be ticularly where required standards conflict with one another.
E
found in Note 24 of the notes to the Consolidated Financial With the increasing complexity of commercial vehicles, also
Statements. Additional information on financial risks, risk-limit- due to digitalization of components and their communication
ing measures and the management of these risks can be found with each other, the risk of vehicle defects increases. The
E
in Note 34 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Infor- adoption of new technologies, many of which are still being
mation on the Group’s financial instruments can be found in refined for use in the transportation industry, including autono-
E
Note 33 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. mous driving technologies and battery-electric vehicles, may
increase the Group’s exposure to vehicle defects and product
liability. Applicable laws and governmental standards require
manufacturers to take action to correct deficiencies related to
vehicle safety and other standards, which may also result in
recalls. Costs associated with delays in new model launches
due to product defects and recall campaigns or warranty costs
to remedy defects in vehicles that have been sold can be sub-
stantial.
Moreover, the Group must comply with a wide range of legal
and regulatory requirements relating to anti-bribery and cor-
ruption, antitrust law, sanctions and export control, anti-money
laundering and terrorist financing, product requirements, data
protection, human rights and the handling of hazardous goods
in connection with its global business activities.
Violations of regulations on anti-corruption, antitrust law, sanc- In relation to the cartel infringement described above, most
tions, export control, anti-money laundering and terrorist substantial claims (including certain types of class actions or
financing, product requirements, data protection and the han- aggregator claims) are pending or have been initiated in Ger-
dling of hazardous goods are sanctioned, e.g. with regulatory many, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and Spain. Claims
fines or criminal consequences. In addition, any violation can are also pending in certain other European countries and in
lead to negative media coverage and affect the Group’s reputa- Israel (in a total of approximately 20 countries).
tion.
The Daimler Truck Group takes appropriate legal remedies to
Risks from legal proceedings defend itself.
The subsidiaries of Daimler Truck Holding AG (especially
Daimler Truck AG) are confronted with various legal proceed- It cannot be ruled out that the regulatory risks and risks from
ings, claims as well as governmental investigations and orders legal proceedings discussed above, individually or in the aggre-
(legal proceedings) on a large number of topics. These include, gate, may materially adversely impact the profitability, liquidity
for example, vehicle conformity and vehicle safety, dealer, sup- and capital resources and financial position of the Group or
plier and other contractual relationships, financial services, any of its segments.
industrial property rights (in particular patent infringement
suits), warranty claims, and antitrust proceedings (including As legal proceedings are fraught with a large degree of uncer-
claims for damages). If the outcome of such legal proceedings tainty, it is possible that after their final resolution, some of the
is negative for the Daimler Truck Group or such proceedings provisions that have been recognized for them could prove to
are settled, the Group may be required to pay substantial com- be insufficient. As a result, substantial additional expenditures
pensatory and punitive damages or to undertake service may arise. This also applies to legal proceedings for which the
actions, recall campaigns, monetary penalties or other costly Group has seen no requirement to recognize a provision.
actions. Legal proceedings and related settlements may have
an impact on the Group’s reputation. Although the final result of any such litigation may influence
the Group’s earnings and cash flows in any particular period,
Antitrust law proceedings (including actions for damages) the Group believes that any resulting obligations are unlikely to
Mercedes-Benz Group AG, under the former name Daimler AG have a sustained effect on the Group’s financial position.
the former parent entity of Daimler Truck AG, was subject to
an antitrust proceeding initiated by the European Commission. Further information on legal proceedings is provided in
E
In July 2016, the European Commission issued a settlement Note 31 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
decision against the former Daimler AG and four other Euro-
pean truck manufacturers for their participation in anti-com-
petitive behavior in violation of European antitrust rules with
regard to pricing and passing on the costs of compliance with
strict emission rules for trucks. The European Commission
found that Daimler AG participated in the relevant arrange-
ments from January17,1997 to January18, 2011. The individual
fine imposed on Daimler AG by the European Commission’s
settlement decision amounted to €1.09 billion and was fully
paid in 2016.
Following the settlement decision by the European Commis-
sion, legal actions, class actions and other forms of legal
redress for damages by direct and indirect truck customers
have been filed or initiated in several jurisdictions. Damage
claims could result in substantial liabilities for the Daimler
Truck Group as well as significant costs expended for defense
measures, which may have a material adverse effect on the
Daimler Truck Group’s operations and its liquidity and capital
resources.
Overall assessment of the risk and
Tax risks and opportunities
opportunity situation
Daimler Truck Holding AG and its subsidiaries operate in many
countries around the world and are therefore subject to numer-
ous different statutory provisions and tax audits. Any changes The overall picture of the Group’s risk and opportunity situa-
in legislation and jurisdiction, as well as different interpreta- tion is made up of the described individual risks and opportuni-
tions of the law by the tax authorities – especially in the area ties for all risk and opportunity categories.
of cross-border transactions – can lead to considerable uncer-
tainty. It is therefore possible that the tax provisions recog- In addition to the risk categories described above, unforesee-
nized may prove to be insufficient, which may have a negative able events that could have a negative impact on business
impact on the Group’s cash flow and net profit. operations and thus on the profitability, liquidity and capital
resources, and financial position of the Daimler Truck Group,
Positive effects on the Group’s net profit and cash flow are also as well as on the reputation of the Group. In particular, legal
possible as a result of retroactive legislation, future court rul- risks or social violations by partners and suppliers can have a
ings or changes in the opinions of the tax authorities. negative effect on the reputation of the Daimler Truck Group,
the environment and the employees of partners and suppliers.
Any changes or interventions by the tax authorities are contin- As one of the basic principles of corporate activity, Daimler
uously monitored by the Tax department, and measures are Truck therefore pays particular attention to compliance with
taken if necessary. legal and ethical rules – including when selecting partners and
suppliers.
In addition, if there is no or too little future taxable earnings,
there is a risk that the tax benefit from loss carryforwards and In order to recognize risks and opportunities at an early stage
tax-deductible temporary differences may not be recognized or and to successfully deal with the current risk and opportunity
may no longer be recognized in full, which could have a nega- situation, the established risk and opportunity management
tive impact on net profit. system is continuously monitored and further developed.
On the other hand, there is an accounting opportunity that tax Overall, the risk situation of the Daimler Truck Group has
benefits currently not recognized in full may be used or recog- increased slightly compared with the prior year. Major drivers
nized in future years and could thus have a positive impact on in this respect relate to the current condition of raw material
the Group’s net profit. and energy prices, global supply chains and the effects from
the Russia-Ukraine war compared with the prior year.
Overall, the opportunity situation of the Daimler Truck Group
has increased significantly compared to the prior year. Major
driver in this respect relates to the current situation of the raw
material prices.
No ESG-related risks that could very likely have a serious
adverse impact on the non-financial aspects of the Daimler
Truck Group are discernible, neither on the balance sheet date
nor at the time the annual financial statements and consoli-
dated financial statements were prepared.
Risks that alone or in combination with other risks could jeop-
ardize the Group’s continued existence checked as part of the
determination of risk-bearing capacity. Such are neither at the
balance sheet date nor at the time of preparation of the annual
and consolidated financial statements recognizable.
Outlook
Our outlook for the 2023 financial year is based on the Daimler The economic output of the eurozone is likely to increase only
Truck Business Plan of Daimler Truck Holding AG, as approved slightly in 2023 (+0.5%). The calming of the energy markets
by the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. This should have a stabilizing effect, but we expect the European
plan takes into account the current business development as Central Bank (“ECB”) to continue to act restrictively to lower
well as possible opportunities and risks, which are explained in inflation rates and expectations. We expect inflation to reach
E
detail in Risk and Opportunity Report. The premises and around 5% in 2023. The high price level and higher interest
assessments we have made regarding general economic condi- rates are likely to have a negative impact on the purchasing
tions and the development of commercial vehicle markets are power of consumers and the investment activity of industry.
also taken into account. The estimates regarding the future
development of the Company presented here are based on the We also expect a weaker performance of the US economy in
targets of our segments. Against this backdrop, we adjust our 2023 than in the prior year. With inflation well above the target
expectations for the business development to reflect current rate, the US central bank will have to continue its restrictive
forecasts for the development of commercial vehicle markets. course. We thus expect inflation to be around 4% in 2023.
The statements made below are based on our knowledge at Dampening measures on the part of monetary policy are hav-
the time the 2022 combined management report was compiled. ing an adverse effect on demand. For 2023, we therefore
expect only slight growth of 0.5% in the US economy as a
The outlook is especially subject to the further developments whole.
in the Russia-Ukraine war and its impact on the global econ-
omy as well as the development of the high inflationary The Chinese economy may develop more dynamically in 2023
pressure and the associated restrictive monetary policy envi- than in the prior year, as the restrictive zero-COVID policy was
ronment. The further macroeconomic and geopolitical virtually abandoned at the end of 2022. We expect the econ-
development also harbor a high degree of uncertainty. omy to grow by around 5% in 2023.
The world economy The commercial vehicle market
We expect a further reduction of the momentum of the global Despite the difficult economic conditions in 2023, high energy
economy in 2023. The fight against inflation is a priority for prices and tension in some points of supply chains, we expect
many central banks and we therefore expect restrictive mone- robust development in our important truck sales markets.
tary policy to continue to dampen consumer and capital expen- From today’s perspective, we anticipate a market volume for
diture. Global trade is also affected: Due to declining demand heavy-duty trucks (“class 8”) in North America of between 280
in important economies and sanctions, exports and imports and 320 thousand units. The market for heavy-duty trucks in
are only likely to see moderate increases. Rising incidences the EU30 region (European Union, United Kingdom, Switzer-
and new variants of COVID-19 could prove a dampener, at least land and Norway) will also probably have a volume of between
in some regions. According to our forecasts, the global econ- 280 and 320 thousand units.
omy will grow by up to 2% in 2023, thus below the growth rates
of the pre-pandemic years. For the industrial nations we
expect only a slight increase (+1%), while for the emerging mar-
kets we assume growth at the level of the prior year (+3.5%).
Unit sales Revenue and EBIT
Based on the Group’s general assumptions for the global econ- In financial year 2023, we expect revenue of the Daimler Truck
omy and the Group’s key commercial vehicle markets, the Group to be between €55 and €57 billion. For the Industrial
Group expects unit sales for the Industrial Business of Business, we expect revenue of between €53 and €55 billion
between 510 and 530 thousand units. and an adjusted return on sales of 7.5% to 9%.
For the Trucks North America segment, we expect unit sales Based on our expected market development, the aforemen-
to be between190 and 210 thousand units and that there will tioned factors and the planning of our segments, we expect a
continue to be bottlenecks in the supply chains. significant increase in Group EBIT in 2023. We also expect a
significant increase in adjusted Group EBIT.
For the Mercedes-Benz segment, with unit sales of 150 to 170
thousand units, we expect a result below the prior-year level. For the Trucks North America segment, we anticipate an
In Brazil, we expect a market and unit sales decline due to the adjusted return on sales of10% to12%, characterized by a posi-
introduction of the Euro VI emission standard. In the EU30 tive unit sales performance, improved net pricing and strong
region, however, we expect a slight market recovery and an aftersales business.
improvement in the supply chains.
With an adjusted return on sales of 7% to 9% in the Mer-
For the Trucks Asia segment, unit sales of between 150 and cedes-Benz segment, we forecast that the decline in unit
170 thousand units are expected. This forecast is based in par- sales and high material costs will be offset by improved net
ticular on an expected market recovery in Japan, based on an pricing and a positive development in the aftersales business.
improvement in the supply chains.
In the Trucks Asia segment, we expect an increase in the
For the Daimler Buses segment, we forecast unit sales of adjusted return on sales to 3% to 5%. The forecast is mainly
between 20 and 25 thousand units. While we expect a decline based on improved net pricing. However, we are expecting high
in the Brazilian market due to the introduction of the Euro VI material and energy costs in 2023.
emission standard, we anticipate an increase in unit sales in
the regions EU30, North America, and Mexico. For the Daimler Buses segment, we forecast an adjusted
return on sales of 2% to 4%. Improved net pricing and a positive
structure of unit sales will offset the countervailing effects of
the decline in unit sales.
The Financial Services segment expects new business
between €11 and €12 billion in 2023. This will be driven in par-
ticular by the US and the ramp-up of business operations in
the two markets of the foundation phase (Germany and
France). As a result, we anticipate an increase in contract vol-
ume. Furthermore, we expect a moderate increase in proj-
ect-related expenses. In summary, we forecast adjusted earn-
ings for 2023 and thus an adjusted return on equity at the
prior-year level (9% to11%). With regard to the equity base of all
financial services companies, we take into account the require-
ment for the segment of an average equity ratio of 9%.
Free cash flow and Liquidity Investment and research activities
We expect the free cash flow of the Industrial Business will be Investments in property, plant and equipment
slightly higher in 2023 than in the prior year. Based on our In the 2023 financial year, we will continue to make substantial
expected increase in revenue and earnings, we also anticipate investments in the future viability of our product portfolio. This
a slight easing in inventories, in particular of vehicles in the applies in particular to e-mobility and the expansion of our
delivery process, as well as a further improvement in the sup- sales networks. Against this backdrop, we expect investments
ply situation. to remain at the same high level as in 2022.
For 2023, we aim to achieve a level of liquidity that is appropri- Investments on property, plant and equipment at the Trucks
ate to the general risk situation in the financial markets and North America segment is mainly characterized by the expan-
the risk profile of our Company. When calculating the level of sion of production facilities and test centers as well as the
liquidity, we also take possible risks into account, such as the acquisition of new production equipment to support the trans-
risk of having to refinance during the temporary turmoil in the formation to electric and autonomous vehicles.
financial markets. We expect to have good access to the capi-
tal markets and the banking market in 2023. We intend to Mercedes-Benz will invest in production preparation for major
cover our financing requirements primarily through bonds, projects, including compliance with new legal requirements
short-term debt instruments (“commercial papers”), bank and the market launch of additional emission-free models. In
loans and the securitization of receivables from the Financial the sales area, in particular the company’s own spare parts
Services business. The focus should be on bonds in the USD, business, following the spin-off from the former Daimler AG
CAD and EUR bond markets. Most central banks started a (now Mercedes-Benz Group AG).
cycle of interest rate hikes in 2022, which generally led to ris-
ing refinancing costs. Most central banks started a cycle of In the Trucks Asia segment, the focus in 2023 will continue to
interest rate hikes in 2022, which generally led to rising refi- be on new technologies, including e-mobility and digitalization,
nancing costs. We expect interest rates to continue to rise in as well as on the modernization of distribution centers, ware-
the markets that are relevant to us, at least in the first half of houses and plant optimization.
the year. In addition, we aim to continue to ensure a high level
of financial flexibility. For the Daimler Buses segment, investments are planned with
a focus on the completion of the new Bus World Home Service
Center in Berlin and the expansion of the locations in Holysov,
Dividend
Czech Republic and Hosdere, Turkey.
In line with a sustainable dividend policy, we intend to base the Research and development
calculation of the dividend on a distribution ratio of 40% of the With our research and development activities, we aim to
net profit attributable to Daimler Truck shareholders. In addi- increase competitiveness against the backdrop of the mobility
tion, when calculating the dividend, we also consider the level transformation and the associated technological challenges.
of the free cash flow of the Industrial Business. We primarily focus on zero-emission vehicles, automated driv-
ing and further development of existing products. We therefore
In accordance with the German Stock Corporation Act expect our research and development expenditure (including
(Aktiengesetz or “AktG”), the dividend is distributed from the capitalization) in 2023 to be the same as in the prior year.
distributable profit reported in the annual financial statements
of Daimler Truck Holding AG (parent company only) in accor- Trucks North America also continues to focus on future tech-
dance with the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch nologies such as emission-free vehicles and fuel efficiency. In
or “HGB”). Accordingly, the Board of Management and Supervi- addition, investments are also being made in the further devel-
sory Board will propose to the Annual General Meeting to be opment of existing products and the next generation of “Voca-
held on June 21, 2023 that a dividend of €1.30 per share enti- tional Trucks”.
tled to a dividend be distributed for financial year 2022.
At Mercedes-Benz, development for battery- and hydro-
gen-powered vehicles will continue to be the focus in 2023. In
parallel, the conventional powertrain will be adapted to future
emission standards.
For Trucks Asia, the aim is to continue the development of
e-mobility and new technologies and to further develop the
existing portfolio.
At Daimler Buses, a significant shift toward emission-free
drive systems and preparation of the coach portfolio for Euro
VII is planned for 2023.
B.77
Outlook key figures for Daimler Truck
2022 2023
Reported Outlook
Market for heavy-duty trucks
North America (in thousands of units) 309 280 to 320
EU30 (in thousands of units) 296 280 to 320
Group
Revenue 50.9 bn € 55 to 57 bn €
EBIT 3.5 bn € significant increase
Adjusted EBIT 4.0 bn € significant increase
Investment in property, plant and equipment 0.9 bn € on prior year level
Research and development expenditure (including capitalized development costs) 1.8 bn € on prior year level
Industrial Business
Unit sales (in thousands of units) 520.3 510 to 530
Revenue 49.2 bn € 53 to 55 bn €
Adjusted return on sales 7.7% 7.5% to 9%
Free cash flow 1.7 bn € slight increase
Trucks North America
Unit sales (in thousands of units) 186.8 190 to 210
Adjusted return on sals 10.8% 10% to 12%
Mercedes-Benz
Unit sales (in thousands of units) 166.4 150 to 170
Adjusted return on sales 8.1% 7% to 9%
Trucks Asia
Unit sales (in thousands of units) 156.0 150 to 170
Adjusted return on sales 2.6% 3% to 5%
Daimler Buses
Unit sales (in thousands of units) 24.0 20 to 25
Adjusted return on sales 0.4% 2% to 4%
Financial Services
New business 9.4 bn € 11 to 12 bn €
Adjusted return on equity 9.9% 9% to 11%
Overall statement on future development
Forward-looking statements
This document contains forward-looking statements that reflect our current
views about future events. Words such as “anticipate”, “assume”, “believe”,
Uncertainties remain in connection with the Russia-Ukraine
“estimate”, “expect”, “intend”, “may/could”, “plan”, “project”, “should” and
war, COVID-19, the high inflation rates as well as with regard to similar terms are used to express forward-looking statements. These state-
the difficult situation in global supply chains and energy mar- ments are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Examples here
include an adverse development of the global economic situation, in particu-
kets. At the same time, meeting the Euro VII emissions stan-
lar a decline in demand in our most important sales markets, a deterioration
dard and the necessary transformation to a CO 2-neutral future of our refinancing options on the credit and financial markets, unavoidable
will require high levels of investment. force majeure events such as natural disasters, pandemics, acts of terrorism,
political unrest, armed conflicts, industrial accidents and their effects on our
sales, purchasing, production or financing activities, changes in exchange
Our assumptions for 2023 are based on the fact that the ongo- rates, customs and foreign trade regulations, a shift in consumer behavior
ing Russia-Ukraine war will not have any additional negative towards smaller and less profitable vehicles or a possible loss of acceptance
of our products and services, forcing us to adjust prices and lower produc-
effects on the global economy. We also expect high inflation
tion capacities, price increases for fuel and commodities, disruption of pro-
rates to fall as a result of a targeted monetary policy. Further- duction due to shortages of materials, labor strikes or supplier bankruptcies,
more, we assume that the current situation on the energy mar- a decline in the resale prices of used vehicles, the successful implementation
of cost-reduction and efficiency-optimization measures, the business pros-
kets and in the global supply chains will not result in any addi-
pects of the companies in which we hold a significant equity interest, the
tional burdens in the course of the year. Against this backdrop successful implementation of strategic collaborations and joint ventures,
and supported by the brand strength and innovative power of changes in legislation, regulations and official guidelines, in particular those
relating to vehicle emissions, fuel economy and safety, as well as the resolu-
our Company, we are generally confident about the year 2023.
tion of ongoing official investigations or investigations initiated by authorities
and the outcome of pending or threatened future legal proceedings and other
risks and uncertainties, some of which are described earlier in this Annual
Report under the heading of “Risk and Opportunity Report”. Should one of
these elements of uncertainty or one of these imponderables occur or should
the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based prove
to be incorrect, the actual results could differ substantially from the results
stated or implied in these statements. We neither intend nor assume any
obligation to update forward-looking statements on an ongoing basis, since
these are based solely on the circumstances at the date of publication.
References made in this combined management report
Insofar as the references made in this Management Report relate to parts of
the Annual Report that were not included in the external audit (parts outside
the company and consolidated financial statements and the combined
management report), or to the Daimler Truck website or to other reports or
documents, these were also not part of the external audit.
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance
Report of the Audit Committee 157
Declaration on Corporate Governance 160
Declaration of the Board of Management
and the Supervisory Board of Daimler Truck
Holding AG pursuant to Section161 of
the German Stock Corporation Act
(“AktG”) regarding the
German Corporate Governance Code 160
Information about remuneration 161
The main principles and practices
of corporate governance 161
Composition and working method
of the Board of Management 163
Composition and working method
of the Supervisory Board and its
committees 164
Participation of women and men
in management positions 169
Overall requirements profiles
for the composition of
the Board of Management
and the Supervisory Board 170
Qualification matrix for the
Supervisory Board 175
Managers’ transactions 177
Shareholders and General Meeting 177
Report of the Audit Committee
Dear Shareholders,
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present to you the tasks and
activities performed by this body.
Fundamentals of the work of the Audit Committee Tasks and responsibilities
The tasks and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are The Audit Committee deals in particular with issues relating to
based on the relevant statutory provisions, the German Corpo- accounting, financial reporting and sustainability reporting
rate Governance Code as amended, and the Rules of Proce- including the non-financial statement of the group. The Audit
dure of the Supervisory Board and the Audit Committee, as Committee’s duties also include the quality work on the annual
amended. audit and reviewing the qualifications and independence of the
auditor. The Audit Committee discusses with the auditor the
In the 2022 financial year, the work of the Audit Committee assessment of the key audit areas and particularly important
was based on both the German Corporate Governance Code, audit matters (“key audit matters”). Furthermore, the Audit
version of December16, 2019 (“GCGC 2019”) and the German Committee deals with the appropriateness, effectiveness and
Corporate Governance Code, version of April 28, 2022 (“GCGC functionality of the internal control system and risk manage-
2022”). ment system, the audit system and the compliance manage-
ment system. The Audit Committee is also regularly informed
At its November11, 2022 meeting, the Supervisory Board by the Board of Management about ongoing legal disputes.
resolved to make changes to its Rules of Procedure and those
of the Audit Committee, which in particular take into account After the appointment of the auditor at the Annual General
the new recommendations of the German Corporate Gover- Meeting, another task of the Audit Committee is to engage the
nance Code 2022 that sustainability issues be taken into auditor to conduct the audit of the annual financial statements
account in the work and composition of the Supervisory Board and the audit review of interim financial reports. In addition,
and its committees. the Audit Committee identifies the main areas of the audit and
negotiates audit fees with the auditor. The Audit Committee
Composition of the Audit Committee also commissions the auditor to provide further audit services,
With the formation of the Audit Committee on December10, such as the audit of the non-financial statement of the Group
2021, Michael Brecht, Akihiro Eto, Jörg Köhlinger, Harald Wil- as part of the management report.
helm, Thomas Zwick and myself, Michael Brosnan, were
elected members of the Audit Committee. At the constituent Cooperation with the Supervisory Board
meeting of the Supervisory Board following the conclusion of As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I informed the Supervi-
the Annual General Meeting on June 22, 2022, at which time sory Board about the Committee’s activities and the content of
the appointment by the court of the employee representatives meetings and discussions held outside meetings. This informa-
also took effect, these members of the Supervisory Board tion was provided at the respective Supervisory Board meeting,
were also re-elected to the Audit Committee. At its meeting on which took place after a meeting of the Audit Committee. A
June 22, 2022, the Audit Committee then re-elected me, regular dialog takes place between the Chairman of the Super-
Michael Brosnan, as its Chairman and Michael Brecht as its visory Board and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Deputy Chairman. As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am
independent of Daimler Truck Holding AG and its Board of Meetings and participants
Management as defined in the relevant recommendation in the The Audit Committee held seven meetings in the 2022 financial
GCGC. With Harald Wilhelm and myself, Michael Brosnan, the year, passed a resolution by means of the written procedure,
Audit Committee includes two members with financial exper- and held an informative event at the beginning of the 2022
tise within the meaning of Section100 Subsection 5 of the financial year. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Joe
German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz or “AktG”) and Kaeser, attended five meetings as a permanent guest. In com-
the recommendations of the GCGC 2022. Subsequent to the pliance with relevant legal and other requirements, the mem-
election of the employee representatives to the Supervisory ber of the Company’s Board of Management responsible for
Board on November 22, 2022, the Supervisory Board once Finance and Controlling as well as representatives of the audi-
again elected Michael Brecht, Jörg Köhlinger and Thomas tors took part in the meetings as other permanent guests. Reg-
Zwick as members of the Audit Committee in a written proce- ular guests at meetings included in particular the Head of
dure. At the meeting held on December15, 2022, the Audit Accounting, the Chief Legal and Compliance Officer and the
Committee again elected Michael Brecht as its Deputy Chair- Head of Corporate Audit (Internal Audit), who informed the
man. Audit Committee about individual items on the agenda. The
Audit Committee also consulted with the auditor on a regular
basis without the Board of Management.
In addition to the meetings of the Audit Committee, I held r eg- profits made to the Annual General Meeting to fully allocate
ular one-on-one meetings in my capacity as Chairman with the the distributable profits to other retained earnings. Further-
members of the Committee, permanent guests and the afore- more, the Audit Committee approved the report of the Audit
mentioned representatives of Daimler Truck Group manage- Committee on the 2021 financial year and recommended that
ment, in particular for the preparation and follow-up of meet- the Supervisory Board submits the report of the Supervisory
ings. I also held regular discussions with the auditor’s Board and the remuneration report to the Annual General
representatives on important audit issues and informed the Meeting. With regard to the Company’s auditor, the Audit Com-
members of the Committee. mittee in particular examined its independence and, after an
initial analysis of the audit quality, resolved on the recommen-
Subjects of the activities of the Audit Committee in the dation to the Supervisory Board regarding the proposal to the
2022 financial year Annual General Meeting on the appointment of KPMG AG
In the course of the 2022 financial year, the Audit Committee Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Berlin, as auditor, as auditor
discussed the annual and consolidated financial statements, of the consolidated financial statements, as auditor for the
the Combined Management Report and the results of the audit review of interim financial reports for the 2022 financial year
thereof, the interim financial reports and the results of the and for the interim financial reports for the 2023 financial year
respective audit reviews with the responsible Board of Man- in the period up to the next Annual General Meeting in the
agement member, the Head of Accounting, and representa- 2023 financial year. The meeting on March 23, 2022 also
tives of the auditor prior to their publication. The meetings included the annual planning of the Corporate Audit depart-
were also regularly supplemented by reports from Corporate ment.
Audit, Compliance and the Legal department. The Audit Com-
mittee received regular reports on ongoing legal proceedings, At its meeting on May16, 2022, the Audit Committee dealt in
the legal risk situation, the compliance management system, detail with the Interim Report for the first quarter of 2022 and
and information on internal and external reports received by acknowledged the reports from Corporate Audit, Compliance
the Group’s whistleblowing system Business Practices Office and the Legal department. The meeting also contained discus-
(“BPO”) and the measures taken to deal with them. sions on the further development of the accounting-related
internal control systems.
As part of an initial information event on February11, 2022, the
Audit Committee dealt in detail with the key topics under its Additional to the elections carried out in its constituent meet-
responsibility and discussed its importance at Daimler Truck ing held on June 22, 2022, the Audit Committee issued the
with management of the Daimler Truck Group, in particular audit mandate KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft,
with the member of the Board of Management responsible for Berlin, after its appointment by the Annual General Meeting to
Finance and Controlling, the Head of Accounting, the Chief audit the annual- and consolidated financial statements, the
Legal and Compliance Officer, and representatives of the audi- non-financial statement of the Group, the internal control sys-
tor. tems for the 2022 financial year, and to review the Interim
Reports for the 2022 financial year. The Committee also autho-
At its first meeting on March 23, 2022, the Audit Committee rized me, Michael Brosnan, and, in case of my absence,
examined and discussed in detail the Company financial state- Michael Brecht, to sign the engagement documents and fee
ments, the consolidated financial statements and the com- agreement.
bined management report (each of which had received an
unqualified audit opinion from the auditor) with non-financial
statement of the Group (which had been reviewed with limited
assurance) for the 2021 financial year, as well as the Declara-
tion on Corporate Governance, the proposal to be made at the
Annual General Meeting for the appropriation of distributable
profits, and the Remuneration Report. In addition, the Audit
Committee reviewed the Dependency Report prepared for the
period prior to the spin-off. The representatives of the auditor
reported on the results of the audit, focused in particular on
the key audit matters, and the audit procedure, including the
conclusions reached in each case, and were available to the
Committee for questions and extra information. The auditor’s
reports on the annual and consolidated financial statements
(including the particularly important audit matters in the audit
opinions), on the internal control system and significant
accounting transactions were discussed together with the
auditor. Further, the Audit Committee also reviewed the Com-
pany’s risk management system. Following a thorough review
and discussion, the Audit Committee recommended that the
Supervisory Board approves the prepared financial statements,
the combined management report including the non-financial
statement of the Group, the Declaration on Corporate Gover-
nance, and the proposal for the appropriation of distributable
The meeting of the Audit Committee on July 13, 2022 focused Company and consolidated financial statements 2022
in particular on an in-depth discussion of new developments At its meeting on March 9, 2023, the Audit Committee
relating to holistic sustainability reporting, on which the Audit reviewed and discussed intensively the annual financial state-
Committee held detailed discussions with the responsible ments, the consolidated financial statements and the Com-
Board of Management member and the Head of Accounting. In bined Management Report (each of which had received an
addition, the Audit Committee dealt with the planning of the unqualified audit opinion from the auditor) and the non-finan-
audit, determined the audit focus areas after the respective cial statement of the Group (which had been reviewed with
discussion with the auditor and dealt with aspects of account- limited assurance) and further sustainability reporting of the
ing-related internal control systems and their further develop- Group integrated in the Combined Management Report for the
ment. 2022 financial year, as well as the Declaration on Corporate
Governance, the proposal to be made at the Annual General
At its meeting on August10, 2022, the Audit Committee dis- Meeting for the appropriation of distributable profits, and the
cussed the Interim Report for the second quarter of 2022 in Remuneration Report. The representatives of the auditors
detail and accepted reports from Corporate Audit, Compliance reported thoroughly on the results of the audit and, in this
and the Legal department. As well as dealing with the further report, addressed particularly important audit issues,
development of accounting-related internal control systems, so-called “Key Audit Matters”, and audit procedures, including
the meeting focused in particular on the changes to the 2022 the conclusions reached in each case, and made themselves
GCGC and their significance for the work and composition of available to the committee for questions and additional infor-
the Audit Committee. In this regard, the Audit Committee was mation. The auditor’s reports on the annual financial state-
primarily informed about the increased requirements for finan- ments and consolidated financial statements (including the
cial expertise in the Audit Committee and the new recommen- particularly important audit facts in the audit opinions), on the
dations regarding the collaboration with the auditor. At its internal control system and significant accounting transactions
meeting on November10, 2022, the Audit Committee looked in were discussed together with the auditor’s representatives.
detail at the Interim Report for the third quarter of 2022 and Further, the Audit Committee also reviewed the risk manage-
received reports from Corporate Audit, Compliance and the ment system. Following a thorough review and discussion, the
Legal department as well as regarding the audit in accordance Audit Committee recommended that the Supervisory Board
with the EU Market Infrastructure Regulation. In preparation approves the prepared financial statements, the combined
for the meeting of the Supervisory Board on November11, management report with the included sustainability reporting
2022, the Audit Committee also dealt in detail with the corpo- which in turn included the non-financial statement, the Decla-
rate planning to be submitted by the Board of Management. ration on Corporate Governance and the proposal to be made
Regarding the audit of the financial statements, the Audit Com- at the Annual General Meeting for the appropriation of distrib-
mittee also discussed the catalog of non-audit services and utable profits. Furthermore, the Audit Committee approved its
confirmed the catalog after making corresponding adjustments. report on the 2022 financial year. With regard to the Compa-
ny’s auditor, the Audit Committee in particular looked into its
At its meeting on December15, 2022, in preparation for the independence and, after an initial analysis of the audit quality,
Supervisory Board meeting on the same day, the Audit Com- the recommendation to the Supervisory Board of the Supervi-
mittee dealt with the intended use of a specific financial indica- sory Board to the Annual General Meeting on the appointment
tor as a control variable for measuring the financial develop- of KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Berlin, as audi-
ment of the Company and had a discussion in this regard with tor, as auditor of the consolidated financial statements, as
representatives of the management. auditor for the review of interim financial reports for the 2023
financial year and for the interim financial reports for the 2024
financial year in the period up to the next Annual General
Meeting in the 2024 financial year.
Leinfelden-Echterdingen, March 2023
The Audit Committee
Michael Brosnan, Chairman
Declaration on Corporate Governance
In this Declaration on Corporate Governance according to Sections 289f, 315d of the
German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch or “HGB”), the Board of Management
and Supervisory Board jointly report on the corporate governance for the 2022
financial year. Unless otherwise stated below, the following statements apply equally
to Daimler Truck Holding AG and the Daimler Truck Group. Pursuant to Section 317
Subsection 2 Sentence 6 of the German Commercial Code (“HGB”), the auditor’s
review of the statements pursuant to Section 289f Subsections 2 and 5 and Section
315d of the German Commercial Code (“HGB”) is limited to determining whether
such statements have actually been provided. The Declaration on Corporate Gover-
nance is available on the Company’s w Website.
Declaration of the Board of Management
– According to Recommendation C.4 GCGC 2019, a Supervi-
and the Supervisory Board of Daimler sory Board member who is not a member of any manage-
ment board of a listed company shall not accept more than
Truck Holding AG pursuant to § 161 of the
five supervisory board mandates at non-group listed compa-
German Stock Corporation Act (Aktien- nies or comparable functions, with an appointment as chair
of the supervisory board counting twice. According to Rec-
gesetz) regarding the German Corporate
ommendation C.5 GCGC 2019, members of the management
Governance Code boards of listed companies shall not accept in total more
than two supervisory board mandates at non-group listed
companies or comparable functions and shall not accept the
Since the last declaration of compliance with the German Cor- chairmanship of a supervisory board at a non-group listed
porate Governance Code in December 2021, Daimler Truck company. Instead of observing the recommended total num-
Holding AG has complied with the recommendations of the ber of mandates for members of the Board of Management
Government Commission on the German Corporate Gover- and the Supervisory Board as a rigid upper limit, it should be
nance Code in the version of16 December 2019 published in possible to consider each individual case in order to assess
the electronic Federal Gazette on 20 March 2020 (hereinafter whether the number of mandates held, which are relevant
referred to as »GCGC 2019«) with the following exceptions: within the meaning of the Code, appears appropriate. In this
context, the individual workload to be expected as a result
– Recommendation B.3 GCGC 2019 states that initial appoint- of the mandates accepted should be taken into account,
ments of board members should be for a maximum of three which may vary depending on the mandate.
years. Already prior to the stock exchange listing of Daimler
Truck Holding AG, Martin Daum was appointed as a member – According to Recommendation D.13 GCGC 2019, the Super-
of the Board of Management of Daimler Truck Holding AG visory Board shall assess, at regular intervals, how effective
until 28 February 2025, Jochen Goetz until 30 June 2026, the Supervisory Board as a whole and its committees fulfill
and Jürgen Hartwig until 30 November 2026. The longer their tasks. The Supervisory Board shall report in the Decla-
appointment period took into account, in particular, that ration on Corporate Governance if and how the self-assess-
Daimler Truck Holding AG acts as the management holding ment was conducted. An efficiency review can meaningfully
company of Daimler Truck AG and that Martin Daum, Jochen only take place once the co-determined Supervisory Board
Goetz and Jürgen Hartwig have already been members of has been constituted and has taken up its work. The co-de-
the Board of Management of Daimler Truck AG since1 Octo- termined Supervisory Board was constituted after the
ber 2019. The appointment of the other members of the Annual General Meeting 2022. In order to be able to con-
Board of Management was in accordance with the recom- sider a sufficiently long period of time in the context of the
mendation. Pursuant to the Rules of Procedure of the Super- efficiency review, the first efficiency review is then planned
visory Board adopted on10 December 2021, the initial to take place in the 2023 financial year. Against this back-
appointment of members of the Board of Management shall ground, an efficiency review has not yet taken place; the
in future be for a maximum of three years so that the identi- identical recommendation D.12 GCGC 2022 will in future be
cal recommendation B.3 of the GCGC 2022 (as defined complied with.
below) will in future be complied with.
The main principles and practices of
– According to recommendation F.2 GCGC 2019, inter alia the
mandatory interim financial information shall be made pub- corporate governance
licly accessible within 45 days from the end of the reporting
period. The Interim Report for the1st Quarter 2022 was not
made publicly accessible on 16 May 2022, but on 17 Corporate Governance
May 2022; for the rest the identical recommendation F.2 The designation Daimler Truck Group includes Daimler Truck
GCGC 2022 was and will in future be complied with. Holding AG and the companies of its group. Daimler Truck
Holding AG is a stock corporation organized under German
Daimler Truck Holding AG complies and will in future comply Stock Corporation law, with registered office in Stuttgart and
with the recommendations of the Government Commission on business address at Fasanenweg10, 70771 Leinfelden-Echter-
the German Corporate Governance Code in the version of 28 dingen. It has three governing bodies: the Board of Manage-
April 2022 published by the Federal Ministry of Justice and ment, the Supervisory Board and the General Meeting. The
Consumer Protection in the electronic Federal Gazette on duties of the governing bodies are essentially derived from the
27 June 2022 (herein referred to as »GCGC 2022«) with the fol- German Stock Corporation Act (“AktG”), the Articles of Incor-
lowing exceptions: poration of Daimler Truck Holding AG, and the Rules of Proce-
dure.
– The recommendations C.4 and C.5 GCGC 2022, which are
identical to recommendations of the GCGC 2019, will in German Corporate Governance Code
future not be complied with due to due reasons mentioned In addition to the legal requirements of the German Stock Cor-
before. poration, Co-determination and Capital market law, Daimler
Truck Holding AG complied with the recommendations of the
Leinfelden-Echterdingen, December 2022 GCGC 2019 in the version of December16, 2019 and complies
with the recommendations of the new GCGC 2022 of April 28,
Daimler Truck Holding AG 2022, which came into force in June 2022, with the exceptions
specified and explained in the Declaration of Compliance with
On behalf of the On behalf of the GCGC. Daimler Truck Holding AG also voluntarily complied and
Supervisory Board Board of Management complies with the suggestions of the GCGC.
Joe Kaeser Martin Daum
Chairman Chairman The principles guiding our conduct
Our business conduct is aligned with Group-wide standards
and with our Company values that go beyond the requirements
This Declaration of Compliance with the German Corporate of the law and the GCGC. In order to achieve long-term and
Governance Code (“GCGC”) as well as the no longer current sustainable business success on this basis, our goal is to
Declarations of Compliance of the last five years are available ensure that our activities are in line with the interests of envi-
w
on the Company’s Website. ronment and society. This is because we, as one of the world’s
leading manufacturers of commercial vehicles, also strive to
bring vehicles onto the roads that have a future. We have
Information about remuneration
defined the most important principles in our Code of Conduct,
which serves as a frame of reference for all employees of the
Remuneration system and remuneration report Daimler Truck Group and supports them in making the right
The remuneration system applicable to the members of the decisions even in difficult business situations.
Board of Management in accordance with Section 87a Subsec-
tions 1 and 2, Sentence 1 of the German Stock Corporation Act Our Code of Conduct
(Aktiengesetz or “AktG”) for the 2022 financial year, which was Our Code of Conduct defines the central corporate principles
approved by the Annual General Meeting on June 22, 2022, is that guide our behavior in daily business, our interpersonal
w
available on the Company’s Website. The resolution conduct at the Group and our conduct toward business part-
passed by the Annual General Meeting on June 22, 2022 in ners and customers. These corporate principles include
accordance with Section113 Subsection 3 of the German respect for law and order as well as, for example, fairness,
Stock Corporation Act (“AktG”) on the remuneration of the transparency, diversity and responsibility. In addition to the
members of the Supervisory Board is available on the Compa- corporate principles, our Code of Conduct includes require-
w
ny’s Website. The 2022 Remuneration Report and the audi- ments and regulations concerning respect for and the protec-
tor’s report pursuant to Section162 German Stock Corporation tion of human rights and dealing with conflicts of interest; it
Act (“AktG”) will also be made publicly available on the two also prohibits all forms of corruption. The Code of Conduct
aforementioned websites. The Supervisory Board has decided was revised in the reporting year and published at the begin-
to further develop the remuneration system for the members ning of February 2023 under the name “Daimler Truck Code of
of the Board of Management, which was approved by the Conduct”. The implementation is supported by a Group-wide
Annual General Meeting on June 22, 2022. Subject to approval communication campaign. The Code of Conduct applies to all
by the Annual General Meeting in 2023, the new remuneration companies and employees of the Daimler Truck Group world-
w
system for the members of the Board of Management shall wide. It is available on the Company’s Website.
take effect retroactively from January1, 2023. An outlook on
this can be found in the 2022 Remuneration Report.
Policy statement on Social Responsibility and Our compliance management systems, which are rooted in our
Human Rights culture of compliance, are designed to support the adherence
We are committed to UN Guiding Principles for Business and to laws and policies by the Group and by its employees, to pre-
Human Rights and the National Action Plan for Business and vent misconduct and to systematically minimize compliance
Human Rights of the German Federal Government. Respect for risks. The main characteristics of the compliance management
E
human rights is a fundamental element of our social responsi- systems are described in chapter Compliance in the com-
bility. We are strongly committed to this in all our companies bined management report; it also contains the comment upon
and expect our business partners to do the same. We confirm the appropriateness and effectiveness of these systems.
our commitment in our Policy Statement on Social Responsibil-
ity and Human Rights. It extends our obligation to respect The internal audit department supports the organization in
human rights from our Code of Conduct and forms the basis achieving its objectives by using a systematic and targeted
for the assumption of social responsibility at Daimler Truck. approach to evaluate and help improve the appropriateness
and effectiveness of the compliance management systems, the
Expectations for our business partners risk management system, the internal control system, and the
In our “Daimler Truck Business Partner Standards” we define management and monitoring processes. The independence of
our requirements for our business partners with regard to the internal audit function is assured by the fact that it is free
respect for and protection of human rights, good working con- from interference and biases in its planning and performance
ditions, environmental protection and compliance. We require of its work, and has unhindered access to the necessary per-
our business partners – in particular our direct suppliers – to sons, resources and information. Internal audit itself shall be
comply with these standards and to communicate them to subject to an external quality audit at least every five years.
their employees and their upstream value chain. We also
expect our business partners to assess whether these stan- In accordance with its Rules of Procedure, the Audit Commit-
dards are being complied with. Compliance with these stan- tee of the Supervisory Board shall discuss with the Board of
dards is the most important prerequisite for successful coop- Management the appropriateness, effectiveness and function-
eration. Detailed regulations on these standards and ality of the internal control and risk management system, the
requirements are contained in our contractual terms and con- compliance management systems and the internal audit sys-
ditions. Information about what we expect of our business tem at least once a year. The Chairman of the Audit Committee
w
partners can be found on the Company’s Website. reports to the Supervisory Board on the committee’s work no
later than the next meeting of the Supervisory Board. The
Risk and compliance management, Supervisory Board deals with the internal control system with
internal control system and internal audit in the Group respect to the accounting and the risk management system
The Daimler Truck Group has internal control, risk and compli- also on the occasion of the audit of the annual and consoli-
ance management systems that are commensurate with the dated financial statements. As described in more detail in the
size and global presence of the Company and the scope of its Rules of Procedure for the Board of Management and the
business activities and that is geared towards the continuous Supervisory Board, between Supervisory Board meetings, the
and systematic management of entrepreneurial risks and Chairman of the Supervisory Board has regular contact with
opportunities. The Board of Management ensures that these the Board of Management, in particular with the Chairman of
systems also cover sustainability-related objectives, unless the Board of Management, to discuss not only the Group’s
already required by law, and that this includes processes and strategy and business development but also issues relating to
systems for the recording and processing of sustainability-re- risk management and compliance. In addition, the Board of
lated data. Management regularly informs the Audit Committee and the
Supervisory Board of the most important risks facing the Com-
The risk management system is one component of the Group- pany and the Daimler Truck Group.
wide planning, controlling and reporting process. This is to
ensure that the Company management recognizes significant Accounting and external audit
risks at an early stage and can initiate corrective actions in The consolidated financial statements and interim financial
good time. The internal control system aims with regard to the reports are prepared in accordance with International Finan-
accounting process to ensure the correctness and effective- cial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as applicable in the European
ness of accounting and financial reporting. The risk manage- Union. The annual financial statements are prepared in accor-
ment system and the internal control system are to be gradu- dance with the accounting rules of the German Commercial
ally expanded and further developed with the definition of Code (“HGB”). In addition to the half-yearly financial report,
further sustainability-related objectives in the 2023 financial Daimler Truck also prepares quarterly financial reports. The
year. A description of the main characteristics of the internal consolidated financial statements and annual financial state-
control system and the risk management system, as well as ments are audited by an external auditor; interim financial
the comment upon the appropriateness and effectiveness of reports are reviewed by external auditors. The consolidated
E
these systems, can be found in the Risk and Opportunity financial statements and Group management reports are made
w
Report of the Combined Management Report. publicly accessible on the Company’s Website within 90
days and the interim financial reports within 45 days of the
end of the respective reporting period.
Based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the
Supervisory Board submits a proposal to the Annual General
Composition and working method of the
Meeting in respect of the appointment of the external auditor
of the annual financial statements and consolidated financial Board of Management
statements and the review of the interim financial reports of
Daimler Truck Holding AG. At the Annual General Meeting on
June 22, 2022, KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Ber- German law on stock corporations stipulates a dual manage-
lin, was appointed as auditor for the annual financial state- ment system – with strict separation between the Board of
ments, the consolidated financial statements and as auditor for Management acting as the management body and the Supervi-
the review of interim financial reports for the 2022 financial sory Board as the monitoring body. Accordingly, the Board of
year and of interim financial reports for the 2023 financial year Management of Daimler Truck Holding AG is responsible for
for the period up to the next Annual General Meeting in the managing the Company, while the Supervisory Board monitors
2023 financial year. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, and advises the Board of Management in this regard. In its
Berlin, has been conducting the audit of the annual financial management of the Company, the Board of Management is
statements and of the consolidated financial statements of bound by the interests of the Company and committed to a
Daimler Truck Holding AG since the 2021 financial year; the sustainable increase in the value of the Company, taking into
responsible auditor has been Michael Mokler since the 2021 account the interests of shareholders, the workforce, and
financial year. other stakeholders. The Board of Management and the Super-
visory Board, in their management and supervisory activities,
Before submitting its recommendation for the election pro- shall also consider the risks and opportunities associated with
posal to the General Meeting, the Audit Committee of the social and environmental factors for the Company, and the
Supervisory Board obtained a declaration by the proposed ecological and social impacts of the Company’s activities, and
auditor as to whether and, if so, which business, financial, per- take this into account in the Company’s interests.
sonal or other relationships exist between the auditor and its
boards, committees and audit managers on the one hand, and Board of Management
the Company and the members of its boards on the other hand, In accordance with the Articles of Incorporation of Daimler
that could give rise to concerns of partiality. The declaration Truck Holding AG, the Board of Management has at least two
also covers any other services provided to the Daimler Truck members. The exact number of Board of Management mem-
Group in the previous financial year or contractually agreed for bers is determined by the Supervisory Board. As of Decem-
the following year, and the extent of such services. ber 31, 2022, the Board of Management of Daimler Truck Hold-
ing AG consists of eight members: Martin Daum, Jochen Goetz,
The external auditor informs without undue delay the Chairman Karl Deppen, Dr. Andreas Gorbach, Jürgen Hartwig, John
of the Audit Committee of all possible exclusions and biases O’Leary, Karin Rådström and Stephan Unger.
arising during the audit or review and all significant findings
and incidents material to the tasks of the Supervisory Board, In the composition of the Board of Management, the quota
which come to the attention of the external auditor during the requirement pursuant to Section 76 Subsection 3a German
audit. The auditor also informs the Audit Committee and notes Stock Corporation Act (“AktG”) whereby at least one woman
in the audit report if, during the audit, they uncover facts that and one man must be a member of the Board of Management
lead to an inaccuracy in the Declaration of Compliance with of Daimler Truck Holding AG, is observed. The details of this
the GCGC of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board. are described in a separate section of this Declaration on Cor-
porate Governance. In addition, with regard to the composition
of the Board of Management, the Supervisory Board adopted a
diversity concept embedded in an overall requirements profile,
including an age limit. Details are also presented in a separate
section of this Declaration on Corporate Governance.
Information on the members of the Board of Management and
E
their areas of responsibility is also provided in chapter The
Board of Management of the Annual Report. Information about
the areas of responsibility and the curricula vitae of the Board
of Management members is also available on the Company’s
w
Website.
Notwithstanding the overall responsibility of the Board of Man-
agement, the individual members of the Board of Management
manage their areas of responsibility in their own responsibility
within the framework of the instructions approved by the
entire Board of Management. Certain matters defined by the
Board of Management as a whole shall nevertheless be dealt
with by the Board of Management as a whole and shall require
its approval. The Chairman of the Board of Management coor-
dinates the work of the Board of Management. There were no
Board of Management committees during the reporting period.
The Board of Management is responsible in particular for the Committee of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board is
preparation of the annual financial statements, the consoli- responsible for deciding on whether remuneration for sideline
dated financial statements and the combined management activities should be offset against remuneration from the Com-
report of the Company and the Group including the herein inte- pany.
grated Sustainability Report with the Non-Financial Statement
of the Group and is also responsible for the Group’s interim The Board of Management has subjected itself to Rules of Pro-
w
financial reports. Together with the Supervisory Board, the cedure, which are also available on the Company’s Website.
Board of Management issues the Declaration of Compliance Information on the memberships of the members of the Board
with the GCGC each year. It ensures that the provisions of of Management to be disclosed pursuant to Section 285 No.10
applicable law, official regulations and the internal policies at of the German Commercial Code (“HGB”) can be found on the
w
the Company are adhered to, and works to ensure that the Company’s Website.
companies of the Group adhere to such rules and regulations
(“compliance”). The tasks of the Board of Management also Diversity
include establishing an internal control, risk and compliance “Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Management” is part of the corpo-
management systems which are adequate and effective with rate strategy and provides the framework for a diverse and
regard to the extent of the business activities and the risk situ- inclusive corporate culture. Details in this regard can be found
E
ation of the Company, the main characteristics of which are in section “Diversity as a success factor” in chapter Our
E
described in the Risk and Opportunity Report and in chap- Team in the Combined Management Report.
E
ter Compliance in the Combined Management Report.
Such features include the Business Practices Office (“BPO”) The Board of Management also pays attention to diversity
whistleblower system, which operates throughout the Group, when filling management positions in the Company and strives
giving employees and external whistleblowers world-wide the to continuously increase the proportion of women in manage-
opportunity to report rule violations in a protected manner. ment positions. The Board of Management of Daimler Truck
Holding AG, which has almost no employees, has set a target
The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board work of 0% for the proportion of women at the two management lev-
closely together for the benefit of the Company. The Board of els below the Board of Management, including a deadline, and
Management reports regularly, promptly and comprehensively has given its reasons for doing so. The details of this are
to the Supervisory Board on the strategy of the Daimler Truck described in a separate section of this Declaration on Corpo-
Group and its individual segments, which, in addition to the rate Governance. The proportion of women in management
long-term economic objectives, also gives appropriate consid- positions at Daimler Truck worldwide was18.6% at the end of
eration to ecological and social objectives, corporate planning, the year 2022.
which includes appropriate financial and sustainability-related
objectives, profitability, business development, and the finan-
Composition and working method of the
cial position of the Company, the internal control system, risk
management system, as well as compliance matters. The Supervisory Board and its committees
Supervisory Board has defined the information and reporting
duties of the Board of Management in greater detail. For cer-
tain types of transactions defined by the Supervisory Board, Supervisory Board
the Board of Management requires the prior approval of the As of December 31, 2022, the Supervisory Board of Daimler
Supervisory Board. The Board of Management, with the Truck Holding AG consists of twenty members in accordance
approval of the Supervisory Board, determines in particular with the requirements of the German Co-Determination Act
the strategic direction of the Company and decides on corpo- (Mitbestimmungsgesetz or “MitbestG”). Half of them are
rate planning. elected by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting
and the other half by the employees of the German operations
The members of the Board of Management are committed to of the Group. The members representing the shareholders and
the Company’s interests and are subject to a comprehensive the members representing the employees are equally required
non-competition clause during their tenure at the Company. by law to act in the Company’s interests.
This does not apply to other mandates within the Daimler Truck
Group and mandates assumed at the instigation of Daimler Up to the Annual General Meeting of Daimler Truck Holding AG
Truck Holding AG at one of its associated companies. No mem- on June 22, 2022, the Supervisory Board consisted of twenty
ber of the Board of Management may pursue personal inter- members, all of whom had been elected by the General Meet-
ests in his or her decisions or exploit business opportunities to ing of Daimler Truck Holding AG prior to the separation of the
which the Company is entitled for his or her own benefit or for commercial vehicle business from the Mercedes-Benz Group
the benefit of third parties. Each member of the Board of Man- in December 2021; ten of these members had been elected in
agement is required to disclose conflicts of interest immedi- agreement with the employee side. In mid-December 2021,
ately to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the Chair- the Board of Management initiated a status procedure in
man of the Board of Management and to inform the other accordance with Sections 97 et seq. German Stock Corpora-
members of the Board of Management accordingly. The mem- tion Act (“AktG”). Subsequently, at the end of the Annual Gen-
bers of the Board of Management may only accept sideline eral Meeting 2022, all mandates of the Supervisory Board
activities, in particular mandates outside the Daimler Truck members expired in accordance with Section 97 Subsection 2
Group, to a limited degree. Taking on such mandates requires Sentence 3 German Stock Corporation Act (“AktG”). The ten
the prior consent of the Presidential and Remuneration current shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board
were newly elected by the shareholders at the Annual General under merger and investment control legislation, the agree-
Meeting on June 22, 2022 by individual election, while the ment will come to an end in accordance with Section158 Sub-
employee representatives were appointed by the court on section 2 of the German Civil Code (Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch
June13, 2022 upon application with effect from the end of the or “BGB”) (condition subsequent) if the (in)direct share owner-
Annual General Meeting 2022. Following the conclusion of the ship of Mercedes-Benz Group AG in Daimler Truck Holding AG
Annual General Meeting in 2022, the Supervisory Board held should fall below 20.00% of the shares.
its constituent meeting for the first time as required under the
German Co-Determination Act (“MitbestG”). Following the Against this background Mercedes-Benz Group AG and
election of the ten current employee representatives to the Mercedes-Benz Verwaltungsgesellschaft für Grundbesitz mbH
Supervisory Board by delegates of the employees from the submitted nominations for eight shareholder representatives
Group’s German operations on November 22, 2022, the term to Daimler Truck Holding AG on February18, 2022 with a view
of office of the previous employee representatives appointed to the elections of the shareholder representatives at the
by court order came to an end. Annual General Meeting on June 22, 2022. The Company’s
Supervisory Board embraced these nominations and proposed
In the context of the separation of the commercial vehicle two further candidates to the Annual General Meeting for elec-
business from the Mercedes-Benz Group in the 2021 financial tion to the Supervisory Board.
year, Mercedes-Benz Group AG (formerly Daimler AG),
Mercedes-Benz Verwaltungsgesellschaft für Grundbesitz mbH The curricula vitae of the individual members of the Supervi-
(formerly Daimler Verwaltungsgesellschaft für Grundbesitz sory Board and information on their other memberships that
mbH) and Daimler Truck Holding AG entered into a so-called must be disclosed in accordance with Section 285 No.10 of
deconsolidation agreement on August 6, 2021, as an annex to the German Commercial Code (“HGB”) can be found on the
w
the spin-off and hive-down agreement, which took effect upon Company’s Website.
entry of the spin-off and hive-down in the commercial register
of Mercedes-Benz Group AG as transferring legal entity on The Supervisory Board is composed so that its members as a
December 9, 2021. This is intended to ensure that a de-facto whole are knowledgeable about the business sector in which
majority of Mercedes-Benz Group AG at the General Meeting the Company operates and also have the knowledge, skills and
of Daimler Truck Holding AG does not lead to a control rela- professional experience that are required for the proper per-
tionship and a related full consolidation obligation of Daimler formance of their tasks. Pursuant to Section 96 Subsection 2
Truck Holding AG at Mercedes-Benz Group AG. To this end, the of the German Stock Corporation Act (“AktG”), the Supervisory
deconsolidation agreement provides, among other things, that Board of Daimler Truck Holding AG must comprise at least 30%
Mercedes-Benz Group AG and Mercedes-Benz Verwaltungs- women and at least 30% men. In addition, the Supervisory
gesellschaft für Grundbesitz mbH undertake not to exercise Board has drawn up an overall requirements profile for its own
their voting rights in the election of two out of ten shareholder composition, which includes a competence profile and a diver-
representatives to the Supervisory Board of Daimler Truck sity concept for the Supervisory Board as a whole, including an
Holding AG at the General Meeting of Daimler Truck Holding age limit. In accordance with the recommendation of the
AG. Furthermore, the agreement provides that Mercedes-Benz GCGC 2022, the Supervisory Board decides and reports on the
Group AG and Mercedes-Benz Verwaltungsgesellschaft für status of implementation, including also by means of a qualifi-
Grundbesitz mbH shall not exercise their voting rights in the cation matrix. The details of this are described in a separate
event of an early election or re-election of individual share- section of this Declaration on Corporate Governance. Propos-
holder representatives or in the event of the election of substi- als by the Supervisory Board for the election of shareholder
tute members, insofar as a resolution is adopted on the representatives by the General Meeting, for which the Nomina-
appointment or reappointment or replacement of a Supervi- tion Committee submits recommendations, seek to satisfy the
sory Board member in whose original election they did not overall requirements profile of the Supervisory Board as a
exercise their voting rights. This also applies to resolutions on whole.
the dismissal of Supervisory Board members, insofar as they
did not exercise their voting rights in the election of the rele- The members of the Supervisory Board assume responsibility
vant Supervisory Board members on the basis of the deconsol- for the training and further education measures required for
idation agreement. With regard to the election of the eight the performance of their tasks, such as for example on mat-
shareholder representatives for which Mercedes-Benz Group ters of corporate governance or changes to legal frameworks,
AG and the Mercedes-Benz Verwaltungsgesellschaft für Grund- new products and future technologies, as well as sustainability
besitz mbH are entitled to exercise their voting rights under issues, and are supported by the Company in doing so. In the
the deconsolidation agreement, the latter provides that context of an onboarding program and in-house workshops,
Mercedes-Benz Group AG and Mercedes-Benz Verwaltungs- new members of the Supervisory Board have the opportunity
gesellschaft für Grundbesitz mbH shall submit corresponding to exchange with members of the Board of Management and, if
proposals to the Supervisory Board of the Company in good- required, with other executives on current topics relating to
time prior to the adoption of the resolution on its election pro- the relevant areas of responsibility of the Board of Manage-
posals. The deconsolidation agreement entered into force ment, business operations and the strategy of the Company,
upon the spin-off taking effect and has an initial term until the thus gaining an overview of the relevant issues affecting the
conclusion of the fifth Annual General Meeting of Daimler Group. The Company asks the members of the Supervisory
Truck Holding AG following the Annual General Meeting of Board about their interest in training and further education
Daimler Truck Holding AG in 2022, and it will be extended if it topics and plans appropriate training measures. In 2022, this
is not duly terminated by either party. Subject to any approvals included information events for the members of the Audit
Committee on new developments in the area of accounting with Section162 of the German Stock Corporation Act
and auditing. Information events on sustainability issues and (“AktG”), will be made publicly available also on the two afore-
legal framework are planned for the year 2023. mentioned websites. The Supervisory Board has decided to
further develop the remuneration system for the members of
The Supervisory Board monitors and advises the Board of Man- the Board of Management, which was approved by the Annual
agement in its management of the business, in particular also General Meeting on June 22, 2022. Subject to approval by the
with regard to sustainability issues. At regular intervals, the Annual General Meeting in 2023, the new remuneration system
Board of Management reports to the Supervisory Board on the for the members of the Board of Management shall take effect
strategy of the Daimler Truck Group and its individual seg- retroactively from January1, 2023. An outlook on this can be
ments – which, in addition to the long-term economic objec- found in the 2022 Remuneration Report.
tives, also - gives appropriate consideration to ecological and
social objectives, corporate planning, which includes appropri- Furthermore, the Supervisory Board reviews the annual finan-
ate financial and sustainability-related objectives, revenue cial statements, the consolidated financial statements and the
development, profitability, business development and the combined management report of the Company and the Group
financial position of the Group, as well as the internal control including the herein integrated Sustainability Report with the
system, risk management system and compliance matters. Non-Financial Statement of the Group, as well as the proposal
The Supervisory Board has retained the right of approval for concerning the appropriation of distributable profits. Following
transactions of fundamental importance. Furthermore, in the discussions with the external auditors and taking into consid-
Rules of Procedure for the Board of Management and in the eration the audit reports of the external auditors and the
Rules of Procedure for the Supervisory Board, the Supervisory results of the review by the Audit Committee, the Supervisory
Board has specified the information and reporting duties of the Board states whether, after the final results of its own review,
Board of Management vis-à-vis the Supervisory Board, the any objections are to be raised. If this is not the case, the
Audit Committee and – between the meetings of the Supervi- Supervisory Board approves the financial statements and the
sory Board – vis-à-vis the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. combined management report; the financial statements are
deemed to have been adopted with the approval of the Super-
The duties of the Supervisory Board include appointing and, if visory Board. The Supervisory Board reports to the General
necessary, dismissing members of the Board of Management. Meeting on the results of its own review and on the manner
In accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the Supervisory and scope of its supervision of the Board of Management
E
Board, initial appointments of members of the Board of Man- during the previous financial year. The Report of the
agement shall apply for a maximum of three years. Reappoint- Supervisory Board for the 2022 financial year is available in
w
ment prior to the end of one year before the end of the this Annual Report and on the Company ’s Website.
appointment period with simultaneous cancellation of the cur-
rent appointment should only take place in the event of special The Supervisory Board has adopted Rules of Procedure that
circumstances. The Supervisory Board observes the legal regulate not only its duties and responsibilities, but above all
requirements for the equal participation of women and men in the convening and preparation of its meetings and the proce-
the composition of the Board of Management, according to dures for passing resolutions. These Rules of Procedure also
which companies subject to Section 76 Subsection 3a of the contain provisions on how to avoid conflicts of interest. Every
German Stock Corporation Act (”AktG”) must have at least one member of the Supervisory Board must disclose conflicts of
woman and one man on the Board of Management. In addition, interest without delay to the Chairman of the Supervisory
the Supervisory Board has adopted a diversity concept embed- Board. To the extent that conflicts of interest arise, information
ded in an overall requirements profile with regard to the com- on these conflicts and on how they are dealt with is provided in
E
position of the Board of Management. Details are summarized the Report of the Supervisory Board. The Rules of Proce-
in a separate section of this Declaration on Corporate Gover- dure of the Supervisory Board are available on the Company’s
w
nance. Website.
The Supervisory Board also determines the system of remuner- Separate meetings of shareholder representatives and of
ation for the Board of Management, reviews it regularly, and on employee representatives are held regularly in preparation for
this basis determines the total individual remuneration of the the Supervisory Board meetings. Moreover, executive sessions
individual members of the Board of Management. Daimler have been scheduled on a regular basis to enable individual
Truck Holding AG first had the opportunity to pass a resolution topics to be discussed also in the absence of the Board of
on the approval of the remuneration system for the members Management. Furthermore, the Board of Management shall not
of the Board of Management and on the approval of the remu- participate in the meetings of the Supervisory Board and the
neration system for the members of the Supervisory Board at Audit Committee if the auditor is called upon to attend meet-
its Annual General Meeting on June 22, 2022. The remunera- ings as an expert, unless the Supervisory Board or the Audit
tion system of the Board of Management was approved by a Committee deems the participation of the Board of Manage-
majority of 96.20% of votes cast. Information in this regard is ment necessary.
w
available on the Company’s Website. The Supervisory
Board’s remuneration system was approved by a majority of The Supervisory Board will regularly assess, either internally or
99.84% of votes cast. Information in this regard is available on through the involvement of external consultants, how effec-
w
the Company’s Website. The 2022 Remuneration Report tively the Supervisory Board as a whole and its committees are
which will be submitted to the 2023 Annual General Meeting performing their tasks. In order to be able to consider a suffi-
for approval, together with the auditor’s note in accordance ciently long period of time - given that the co-determined
Supervisory Board of Daimler Truck Holding AG was only Nomination Committee
formed and began its work in June 2022 - an initial efficiency The Nomination Committee is tasked with making recommen-
review shall take place in the 2023 financial year. dations to the Supervisory Board for proposals to the General
Meeting on the election of shareholder representatives to the
As of 31 December 2022, in addition to the Mediation Commit- Supervisory Board, on which the Supervisory Board then
tee whose establishment is required by law and which was set passes a final resolution. In doing so, the Nomination Commit-
up following the end of the 2022 Annual General Meeting, tee considers and seeks to satisfy the overall requirements
there are three other committees of the Supervisory Board. profile adopted by the Supervisory Board for the entire board.
These committees perform the tasks assigned to them on Furthermore, it also takes into account, without being bound
behalf of and in the name of the full Supervisory Board, where by them, the election proposals that Mercedes-Benz Group AG
permitted by law. The committee chairpersons report to the and Mercedes-Benz Verwaltungsgesellschaft für Grundbesitz
entire Supervisory Board on the committees’ work at the latest mbH submit to the Supervisory Board on the basis of the
in the meeting of the Supervisory Board following each com- deconsolidation agreement concluded with the Company.
mittee meeting. The Supervisory Board has adopted Rules of
Procedure for each of its committees. They are available on The duties of the Nomination Committee also include regularly
w
the Company’s Website. Information on the current com- reviewing which memberships expire at which time and
position of these committees are accessible on the Company’s whether the respective members of the Supervisory Board are
w
Website. eligible and willing to serve for a further term of office, taking
into account the criteria described above. In its search for new
E
The Report of the Supervisory Board also states how many members, the Nomination Committee can also avail itself of
meetings of the Supervisory Board and of the committees independent external human resources consulting services.
were held in person or as video or telephone conferences, and
how many meetings of the Supervisory Board and the commit- The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman of the
tees the individual members attended in each case. Supervisory Board and two other members, who are elected by
the shareholder representatives by majority of votes cast. As
Committees of the Supervisory Board of December 31, 2022, the members of the Nomination Com-
mittee are as follows: Joe Kaeser (Chairman of the Nomination
Presidential and Remuneration Committee Committee), Renata Jungo Brüngger and Marie Wieck. In the
In accordance with its Rules of Procedure, the Presidential opinion of the shareholder representatives, two of the three
Committee, renamed as Presidential and Remuneration Com- members are independent within the meaning of the GCGC.
mittee in November 2022, prepares recommendations to the The Nomination Committee is the only committee of the
Supervisory Board for the appointment of new or existing Supervisory Board which – in accordance with the recommen-
members of the Board of Management, taking into account the dation of the GCGC – is composed exclusively of shareholder
overall requirements profile with the diversity concept, includ- representatives.
ing requirements on the quota of women on the Board of Man-
agement which has been defined by the Supervisory Board. Audit Committee
The Presidential and Remuneration Committee also submits The Audit Committee is composed of six members, who are
proposals to the Supervisory Board on the concept of the elected by a majority of the votes cast by the members of the
remuneration system for the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. As of 31 December 2022, these are share-
appropriate level for the total individual remuneration of its holder representatives Michael Brosnan (Chairman of the Audit
members. It is responsible for the Board of Management mem- Committee), Akihiro Eto, Harald Wilhelm and employee repre-
bers’ contractual affairs. It decides on granting approval for sentatives Michael Brecht (Vice Chairman of the Audit Com-
sideline activities of the members of the Board of Management, mittee), Jörg Köhlinger and Thomas Zwick.
and once a year submits to the Supervisory Board for its
approval a complete list of the sideline activities of each mem- The members of the Audit Committee are composed so that its
ber of the Board of Management. In addition, the Presidential members as a whole are knowledgeable about the business
and Remuneration Committee consults and takes decisions on sector in which the Company operates. The Chairman of the
matters of corporate governance, on which it also makes rec- Audit Committee, Michael Brosnan, has held auditing and man-
ommendations to the Supervisory Board. It supports and agement positions in the financial department of various com-
advises the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and his Deputy panies for many years. He therefore has special knowledge
and prepares the meetings of the Supervisory Board within the and experience in the auditing of financial statements as well
limits of its responsibilities. as in the application of accounting principles and internal con-
trol and risk management systems. Expertise also includes
As of December 31, 2022, the members of the Presidential and sustainability reporting and its audit and assurance. In the
Remuneration Committee were Chairman of the Supervisory opinion of the shareholder representatives, he is independent
Board Joe Kaeser (also Chairman of the Presidential and Remu- within the meaning of the GCGC. Over and above the many
neration Committee, which in the view of shareholder repre- years of practical experience that the majority of Audit Com-
sentatives, is independent within the meaning of the GCGC), mittee members have gained for example in similar commit-
Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board Michael Brecht; tees, in addition to Michael Brosnan, in particular Harald Wil-
and two other members elected by the Supervisory Board. In helm, currently Chief Financial Officer of Mercedes-Benz
the reporting period, they were Marie Wieck and Roman Zit- Group AG, has special knowledge and experience in the
zelsberger.
application of accounting principles and internal control and The Audit Committee also deals with the quality of the audit of
risk management systems, including sustainability reporting. the financial statements and makes recommendations on the
Supervisory Board’s proposal for the election of external audi-
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the tors, assesses the auditors’ suitability, qualifications and inde-
accounting and the accounting process as well as the sustain- pendence and, following their appointment by the General
ability reporting, and for the audit of the financial statements. Meeting, engages them to audit the consolidated financial
It discusses with the Board of Management the appropriate- statements and the annual financial statements and to review
ness, effectiveness and functionality of the internal control the interim financial reports. Hereby, it agrees on the fees and
and risk management system, the compliance management determines the audit focus areas. The external auditor reports
systems and the internal audit system at least once a year. to the Audit Committee on all accounting matters that might
Each member of the Audit Committee may obtain via the com- be regarded as critical and on any material accounting-related
mittee chairperson information directly from the heads of the weaknesses of the internal control system with respect to the
central divisions of the Company who are responsible within accounting process and the risk management system that
the Company for the tasks that the Audit Committee performs might be identified during the audit.
in accordance with its Rules of Procedure. The chairman of the
committee must communicate the information it receives to all The Audit Committee’s responsibilities also include the prior
members of the Audit Committee. If such information is approval of permissible services provided by the auditors or
obtained, the Board of Management must be informed without their affiliated companies to Daimler Truck Holding AG or its
undue delay. Group companies that are not directly connected with the
audit of the financial statements.
The Audit Committee regularly receives reports on the work of
the internal audit department and the Compliance organization Transactions between the Company and related parties within
as well as on pending litigation. At least four times a year, the the meaning of Section111b of the German Stock Corporation
Audit Committee receives a report from the “BPO” whis- Act (”AktG”) require the prior consent of the Audit Committee,
tleblower system on any suspected breaches of regulations by unless there are grounds for a reservation of consent by the
high-level executives or employees - based on a catalog of entire Supervisory Board or one of its committees under the
breaches of regulations - and is informed regularly about how law or according to the Supervisory Board. In accordance with
these suspected breaches are dealt with. its Rules of Procedure, the Audit Committee is also responsi-
ble for regularly evaluating the internal procedure pursuant to
Based on the auditor’s report, the Audit Committee examines Section111a Subsection 2 of the German Stock Corporation
the annual financial statements and the consolidated financial Act (”AktG”) for transactions made in the ordinary course of
statements as well as the combined management reports of business and within arm’s length conditions.
the Company and the Group, and discusses these with the
auditor, with the Non-Financial Statement of the Group being Mediation Committee
audited by the auditor in a separate audit with limited assur- The Mediation Committee consists of the Chairman of the
ance. The Audit Committee makes a proposal to the Supervi- Supervisory Board Joe Kaeser, his Deputy Michael Brecht and
sory Board on the adoption of the annual financial statements two members elected respectively by employee representa-
of Daimler Truck Holding AG, on the approval of the consoli- tives and shareholder representatives on the Supervisory
dated financial statements, and on the appropriation of distrib- Board by a majority of votes cast. As of December 31, 2022,
utable profit. The responsibilities of the Audit Committee also these are Marie Wieck for the shareholder representatives and
include discussions on the interim financial reports with the Roman Zitzelsberger for the employee representatives. The
Board of Management prior to their publication. The Audit Committee is formed solely to perform the function laid down
Committee discusses the audit risk assessment, the audit in Section 31 Subsection 3 of the German Co-Determination
strategy and audit planning as well as the audit results with the Act (“MitbestG”). The Mediation Committee had no reason to
external auditor. In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Com- be active in the 2022 financial year.
mittee regularly discusses the progress of the audit with the
external auditor, even outside of meetings, and reports its find-
ings to the Committee. The Audit Committee regularly consults
with the external auditor, in absence of the Board of Manage-
ment.
Participation of women and men in
Until the statutory gender quota was applicable, i.e., in the
management positions period up to the conclusion of the status proceedings with the
end of the Annual General Meeting on June 22, 2022, the
Supervisory Board passed a resolution on December10, 2021
The composition of the Board of Management reflects the par- that set a target figure of at least 30% women and 30% men on
ticipation requirement of Section 76 Subsection 3a German the Supervisory Board. Since the completion of status proceed-
Stock Corporation Act (“AktG”), introduced by the Act to Sup- ings upon the conclusion of the 2022 Annual General Meeting,
plement and Amend the Regulations for the Equal Partici- the composition of the Supervisory Board of the listed Daimler
pation of Women and Men in Management Positions in the Pri- Truck Holding AG is based on the provisions of the German
vate and Public Sectors (Second Management Positions Act or Co-Determination Act (“MitbestG”) so that in accordance with
“FüPoG II”), according to which at least one woman and one Section 96 Subsection 2 of the German Stock Corporation Act
man must be a member of the Board of Management of com- (”AktG”) it must comprise at least 30% women and 30% men.
panies subject to this provision. As of December 31, 2022, the The quota is to be fulfilled by the Supervisory Board as a whole.
Board of Management has one woman, Karin Rådström, among If shareholder representatives or employee representatives
its eight members. object to the overall fulfillment to the Chairman of the Supervi-
sory Board prior to the election, the minimum proportion for
The Board of Management of a listed or co-determined com- this election must be met separately by the shareholder repre-
pany must in turn set targets for the proportion of women at sentatives and the employee representatives. Since there was
the two management levels below the Board of Management. If no objection to the overall fulfillment, the gender quota, in its
the proportion of women is below 30% at the date when the entirety, had to be observed in the elections of the shareholder
Board of Management determines the targets, the targets may representatives and employee representatives of the Supervi-
no longer fall below the proportion already achieved. At the sory Board.
same time as the targets are set, deadlines for their achieve-
ment must be determined, which may not exceed five years. The voluntary target figure was met by the Supervisory Board
in the period leading up to the completion of status proceed-
By resolution of December10, 2021, the Board of Management ings after the end of the 2022 Annual General Meeting. At the
of Daimler Truck Holding AG set a target proportion of women 2022 Annual General Meeting, with Renata Jungo Brüngger,
of 0% for the first and second management levels below the Laura Ipsen and Marie Wieck three women were elected to the
Board of Management and a deadline of December 31, 2025. Supervisory Board as shareholder representatives and with
The Board of Management was of the opinion that it was not Carmen Klitzsch Müller, Claudia Peter and Andrea Reith three
reasonable to set a target for the proportion of women women were appointed by court as employee representatives
because the structure of the particular company needs to be of the Supervisory Board effective the same date. As of
taken into account when determining this target figure. Daimler December 31, 2022, three women are still represented on the
Truck Holding AG is structured as a management holding com- shareholder side on the Supervisory Board of Daimler Truck
pany with the Board of Management and which provides man- Holding AG with Renata Jungo Brüngger, Laura Ipsen and Marie
agement services in the Group. Below the level of the Board of Wieck. In addition, as of December, 31 2022, following the
Management, the Company – apart from a few employees with completion of the elections of employee representatives to the
dual employment contracts – has no employees of its own. In Supervisory Board on November 22, 2022, also three women,
the reporting period, Daimler Truck Holding AG had a total of Carmen Klitzsch-Müller, Andrea Reith and Andrea Seidel, now
less than five employees below the Board of Management, all represent the employee side. The Supervisory Board of
of whom had a dual employment contract with Daimler Truck Daimler Truck Holding AG is therefore made up of 30% women
AG. According to current planning, no personnel increase is and 70% men. The statutory gender quota of Section 96 Sub-
envisaged for Daimler Truck Holding AG. The Second Manage- section 2 of the German Stock Corporation Act (“AktG”) has
ment Positions Act (“FüPoG II”) assumes a larger number of thus been met.
employees and therefore also a larger number of management
positions to be filled. For this reason, setting the target figure In addition to Daimler Truck Holding AG itself, other companies
of 0% appears justified exceptionally. Furthermore, setting the of the Group such as Daimler Truck AG are subject to co-deter-
target of 0% does not constitute a violation of the deterioration mination and have set their own target figures for the propor-
requirement. tion of women on their respective Supervisory Boards, Boards
of Management, and at the two management levels below the
below the Board of Management, as well as a deadline for
achieving these targets, and have published them in accor-
dance with legal requirements.
Overall requirements profiles for the
person has knowledge or experience in at least two of the
composition of the Board of Management following focus topics within each sustainability area:
and the Supervisory Board
1. Environment:
– Z ero-emission products;
The composition of the Board of Management and Supervisory – CO -neutral production;
2
Board of Daimler Truck Holding AG is based on diversity con- – S upply chains;
cepts with regard to aspects such as educational and profes-
sional background, gender, and age. The Supervisory Board – respectively also with regard to resource consumption.
has combined these diversity concepts with consideration of
legal requirements and other demands on the expertise of the 2. Social:
members of these boards, in the overall requirements profiles – Traffic safety;
for the composition of the Board of Management and Supervi- – Creating the conditions for being a good employer (in par-
sory Board described below. The overall requirements profiles ticular with regard to diversity, equal opportunities &
are reviewed each year and also serve as the basis for long- inclusion, health, wellbeing & occupational safety, continu-
term succession planning. ing education);
– Social responsibility (in particular respect for human
Board of Management rights in the Company and the supply chain);
The aim of the overall requirements profile for the Board of
Management is to ensure that the composition of a board of 3. Governance:
management is as diverse and complementary as possible. – R esponsible governance;
The Board of Management as a whole should possess the – Compliance & risk management;
knowledge, skills and experience required for the proper exe- – T ransparent reporting.
cution of its tasks and be composed of members whose varied
personal backgrounds and experience ensure that the Board of The Board of Management meets regularly, at least twice a
Management as a whole also embodies the desired manage- year, as Corporate Sustainability Board to discuss sustain-
ment philosophy. The decisive aspect in staffing of a specific ability issues relevant to the Company. Members of the
Board of Management position shall always be governed by the Board of Management also direct their attention to the focus
Company’s interests in consideration of all circumstances in topics of the sustainability areas outside of the meetings, in
each individual case. particular where such topics relate to their particular area of
responsibility. All eight members of the Board of Manage-
In the reporting period, the overall requirements profile for the ment have special expertise in sustainability issues relevant
Board of Management included in particular the following to the Company. The sustainability areas they cover are as
aspects, with the Supervisory Board adapting the aspect of follows: Dr. Andreas Gorbach, John O‘Leary, Karl Deppen
“training and professional background” in its resolution of and Karin Rådström are members of the Board of Manage-
November 11, 2022 as shown below. In all other respects, the ment with expertise in the Environment sustainability area.
requirements profile for the Board of Management has Jürgen Hartwig is a member of the Board of Management
remained unchanged since it was first adopted by the Supervi- with expertise in Social sustainability area. Jochen Goetz,
sory Board in December 2021. In December 2022, the Supervi- Martin Daum and Stephan Unger are three members of the
sory Board also determined the implementation status Board of Management that bring special expertise in the
described in more detail below: sustainability area of Governance.
– The members of the Board of Management shall have differ- – According to Section 76 Subsection 3a of the German Stock
ent educational and professional backgrounds, whereby Corporation Act (”AktG”), in companies subject to this regu-
at least two members should have a technical background. lation at least one woman and one man must be a mem-
As of December 31, 2022, the Board of Management com- ber of the Board of Management. As of December 31,
prises two degreed engineers: Dr. Andreas Gorbach and 2022, the Board of Management has one woman, Karin Råd-
Karin Rådström. ström, and seven men among its eight members.
In its resolution of November 11, 2022, the Supervisory – For the last possible age-related appointment or reap-
Board made the addition that at least three members of the pointment of a member of the Board of Management, the
Board of Management should also have expertise on sus- age of 62 relative to the starting date of the (new) term of
tainability issues relevant to the Company from the areas office is used as orientation, which should not yet have been
of Environment, Social and Governance (“sustainability reached at the time of the beginning of a (new) term of
areas”), whereby each sustainability area should be covered office. When it set this age limit, the Supervisory Board
by at least one member of the Board of Management. Exper- deliberately decided in favor of a flexible benchmark allow-
tise is the special knowledge and experience acquired in the ing the required leeway for appropriate decision in individual
course of vocational education or training or in-depth knowl- cases. As of December 31, 2022, six of the eight members
edge and experience gained through further professional or of the Board of Management were younger than the retire-
other activities. Expertise in a sustainability area within the ment age limit. Martin Daum and John O’Leary were also
meaning of the requirements profile is given if the relevant younger than the general age limit at the beginning of their
current term of office.
– In addition, an appropriate generation mix among the mem- Together with the Board of Management, the Supervisory
bers of the Board of Management is to be ensured, whereby, Board also ensures a long-term succession planning for the
if possible, at least three members of the Board of Manage- Board of Management, for which it takes the overall require-
ment should be 57 years or younger at the beginning of the ments profile and the individual circumstances into account. In
relevant term of office. Six of the eight members of the this process, it is to discuss the duration of the contracts of
Board of Management currently in office were 57 years old current Board of Management members, the possibility of
or younger at the beginning of their current term of office. extending them, and potential successors. The duties of the
Presidential and Remuneration Committee of the Supervisory
– Decisions related to the composition of the Board of Man- Board also include holding discussions about the Group’s tal-
agement should also take into account internationality in ented and exceptional executives at regular intervals. Execu-
the sense of different cultural backgrounds or international tives at the management level below the Board of Management
experiences gained through multi-year assignments abroad, and persons of especially high potential are to be evaluated on
whereby, if possible, at least one member of the Board of the basis of an analysis of potential and the criteria of the over-
Management shall be of international origin. Irrespective of all requirements profile, and the next development steps are
the many years of international experience a large majority then to be discussed and defined together with the Board of
of members of the Board of Management have gained, this Management. The succession planning process also includes a
target is met as of December 31, 2022 because of the inter- regular report from the Board of Management regarding the
national background of John O’Leary and Karin Rådström. proportion and development of female executives. The Board
of Management has the task of recommending a sufficient
– Generally, and subject to the disclosure of an exception in number of suitable candidates to the Supervisory Board.
the Declaration of Compliance with the GCGC pursuant to Daimler Truck Holding AG aims to primarily fill Board of Man-
Section161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (”AktG”), agement positions with executives that have risen within the
members of the Board of Management of listed companies Group. Nonetheless, potential external candidates may also be
shall not hold more than two supervisory board mandates in evaluated and included in the selection process on a case-by-
listed companies or comparable functions, nor shall they case basis, if necessary with the support of external human
hold the chair of the supervisory board in a non-group listed resources consulting services.
company. For the purposes of calculating the maximum
number of mandates in accordance with the overall Supervisory Board
requirements profile, supervisory board memberships man- The Supervisory Board is to be composed so that its members
dates in joint ventures, that fall within the areas of responsi- as a whole are knowledgeable about the business sector in
bility of a member of the Board of Management are not con- which the Company operates. The aim of the overall require-
sidered as comparable functions. With regard to Karin ments profile for the Supervisory Board as a whole is also to
Rådström, her mandate at Commercial Vehicle Charging ensure that the composition of the Supervisory Board is as
Europe B.V. is a mandate in a joint venture, that falls in her diverse and mutually complementary as possible. The Supervi-
area of responsibility and which t herefore does not count as sory Board as a whole must understand the Company’s busi-
a comparable function for the purposes of calculating the ness model and also possess the knowledge, skills and experi-
maximum number of mandates according to the overall ence needed to properly execute its task of supervising and
requirements profile. The requirements for the maximum advising the Board of Management. This applies in particular to
number of mandates in accordance with the overall require- the areas of finance, accounting, auditing of financial state-
ments profile are fulfilled a s of December 31, 2022. Notwith- ments, internal control procedures, risk management, compli-
standing this, in the Declaration of Compliance a deviation ance, internal audit, human resources, legal, corporate gover-
to recommendation C.5 of the GCGC is specified and nance and sustainability. Overall, the members of the
explained. Supervisory Board should complement each other in terms of
their expertise and professional experience in such a way that
The aspects described above are to be taken into consider- the entire board can draw on the broadest possible range of
ation when staffing a specific Board of Management position. experience and different specialist knowledge. The Supervi-
On the basis of a target profile that takes specific qualification sory Board also views the diversity of its members in terms of
requirements and the aforementioned criteria into account, age, gender, internationality and other personal attributes as
the Presidential and Remuneration Committee then draws up a an important foundation for effective collaboration. Resolu-
shortlist of available candidates with whom it conducts inter- tions of the Supervisory Board regarding proposals for candi-
views. It then submits a recommendation to the Supervisory dates for election to the General Meeting shall always be gov-
Board for its approval and gives the reasoning behind this rec- erned by the Company’s interests in consideration of all
ommendation. Decisions regarding appointments to the Board circumstances in each individual case.
of Management are always governed by the Company’s inter-
ests in consideration of all circumstances in each individual The overall requirements profile for the Supervisory Board
case. In the Supervisory Board’s view, fundamental personal included in the reporting period, in particular, the following
criteria that make a person suitable for a Board of Manage- aspects, with the Supervisory Board adapting the aspects
ment position include, in particular, the individual’s personality, “educational and professional background” in its resolution of
integrity, convincing leadership qualities, expertise for the seg- November11, 2022, in particular in light of the new version of
ment he or she will head, previous achievements, knowledge of the GCGC 2022 and as set out below, and including stipulating
the Company, and the ability to adapt business models and requirements for the expertise of Supervisory Board members
processes in a changing world. in sustainability issues relevant to the Company. In all other
respects, the requirements profile for the Supervisory Board At least four members of the Supervisory Board should have
has remained unchanged since it was first adopted by the expertise on sustainability issues relevant to the Com-
Supervisory Board in December 2021. With regard to the pany in the areas of Environment, Social and Governance
implementation status of the overall requirements profile, in (“sustainability areas”), whereby each sustainability area
its meeting held on November11, 2022 the Supervisory Board should be covered by at least one member of the Supervi-
determined that it is also met with regard to the adaptations sory Board. Expertise in this context relates to the special
decided on at the same meeting, as further described below, knowledge and experience which is acquired in the course
in relation to the time before the employee representative of professional training or continuing education or deepened
elections at the end of November 2022. In addition, following by the further professional or other activity. A person has
the changes in the composition of the Supervisory Board as a expertise in a sustainability area within the meaning of the
result of the elections of the employee representatives, the overall requirements profile if they have knowledge or expe-
Supervisory Board also determined in December 2022 the rience in at least one of the defined focus topics of a sus-
implementation status of the overall requirements profile tainability area. The sustainability areas and focus topics
described in more detail below and also presented this status correspond to those described above in the overall require-
at the end of this Declaration on Corporate Governance in the ments profile for the Board of Management.
form of a qualification matrix:
With regard to the dispersal of sustainability expertise within
– The members of the Supervisory Board should have different the Supervisory Board, the knowledge and experience of Joe
educational and professional backgrounds, and the com- Kaeser and Bruno Buschbacher particularly in the Environ-
position of the Supervisory Board should also take into ment sustainability area is worth highlighting. Bruno Bus-
account the fact that it may be necessary to acquire new chbacher has specific expertise with regard to the focus
skills in the course of product, market developments, or topic “zero-emission products” in the engine construction
other developments. field, key for Daimler Truck, which primarily relates to the
manufacture of emission-free and low-emission truck
At least five members should have an education or profes- engines. Joe Kaeser has particular expertise in the focus
sion with a technical background or possess specific tech- topic “CO -neutral production”, which has special impor-
2
nological know-how, such as from the areas of information tance in the industrial context, with particular consideration
technology (including digitalization), or engineering (includ- of emission reduction, resource conservation and energy
ing mechanical engineering or electrical engineering). efficiency in production, thanks to his long professional
Jacques Esculier, Laura Ipsen, John Krafcik, Andrea Seidel, career, his work on supervisory boards and in the public sec-
Marie Wieck and Roman Zitzelsberger are six Supervisory tor. The Supervisory Board includes two further members
Board members who have completed a relevant technical with expertise in the Environment sustainability area. These
university degree. In addition, six other employee represen- are Michael Brecht (focus topic “supply chains”) and Roman
tatives have completed appropriate professional training Zitzelsberger (focus topic “zero-emission products” also
with a technical background. These are Michael Brecht, with regard to resource consumption).
Bruno Buschbacher, Jörg Köhlinger, Jörg Lorz, Andrea Reith
and Thomas Zwick. The following eleven members of the Supervisory Board
have relevant expertise in the Social area of sustainability:
At least four members should have a professional training or Thanks to his many years of service at Waymo LLC, John
professional experience in the area of finance. The Supervi- Krafcik has special knowledge and experience with regard to
sory Board must have at least one member with special the focus topic ”traffic safety” in autonomous driving, an
knowledge and experience in the application of accounting important research field for Daimler Truck. Renata Jungo
principles and internal control and risk management sys- Brüngger, Michael Brecht and Jörg Lorz each have expertise
tems. At least one other member should have special knowl- in the focus topic “social responsibility” (respect for human
edge and experience in auditing of financial statements. The rights). The following members of the Supervisory Board
expertise in accounting and auditing also includes sustain- have expertise in the focus topic “creating the conditions to
ability reporting and its audit and assurance. Eight members be a good employer”: Raymond Curry (diversity, equal
of the Supervisory Board have professional training or pro- opportunities & inclusion as well as health), Jacques Esculier
fessional experience in the financial field. These are Michael (wellbeing), Laura Ipsen (continuing education and diversity,
Brecht, Michael Brosnan, Raymond Curry, Jacques Esculier, equal opportunities & inclusion), Carmen Klitzsch-Müller
Akihiro Eto, Joe Kaeser, Harald Wilhelm and Roman Zitzels- (equal opportunities), Marie Wieck and Andrea Seidel (both
berger. Michael Brosnan and Harald Wilhelm have appropri- diversity, equal opportunities & inclusion) and Roman Zit-
ate expertise in the application of accounting principles and zelsberger (employee participation).
internal control and risk management systems. Michael
Brosnan also has the relevant expertise in the auditing of
financial statements. The expertise of the two aforemen-
tioned members in the area of accounting and auditing also
includes sustainability reporting and its audit and assurance.
Owing to their professional careers, a large majority of – An appropriate generation mix among the members of the
Supervisory Board members have competences in the Gov- Supervisory Board members must also be taken into
ernance sustainability area. In particular, worth highlighting account. At least eight members of the Supervisory Board
is Marie Wieck’s expertise in the focus topic “responsible should be no older than 62 years of age at the time of their
governance” due to the increased consideration and anchor- election or reelection. Of the Supervisory Board members in
ing of sustainability issues in corporate decisions as part of office as of December 31, 2022, with the exception of
her professional and social commitment. In addition, the fol- Michael Brosnan, Joe Kaeser and Martin H. Richenhagen, all
lowing seven members can also demonstrate their expertise other17 members were 62 years old or younger at the time
in the Governance area of sustainability, whereby the focus of their election for their current terms of office.
topic “responsible governance” is covered by Joe Kaeser due
to his special expertise in the increased consideration and – In order to ensure appropriate internationality, for example,
anchoring of sustainabiity issues in corporate decisions, as through many years of international experience, the Supervi-
well as by Michael Brecht, Jörg Köhlinger and Roman Zitzels- sory Board has set a target of a proportion of at least 30% of
berger, each focusing on co-determination issues. Renata international shareholder representatives and a resulting
Jungo Brüngger and Harald Wilhelm have particular exper- quota of15% relative to the Supervisory Board in its entirety.
tise in the focus topic “compliance and risk management”. Notwithstanding the many years of international experience
The focus topic “transparent reporting” is satisfied in partic- of a large majority of the shareholder representatives, this
ular by the two financial experts on the Audit Committee target was significantly exceeded by December 31, 2022
Michael Brosnan and Harald Wilhelm. due to the international background of Michael Brosnan, Aki-
hiro Eto, Jacques Esculier, Renata Jungo Brüngger, John Kraf-
– Since the conclusion of the status proceedings at the end of cik, Laura Ipsen, Martin H. Richenhagen and Marie Wieck on
the 2022 Annual General Meeting, the composition of the the shareholder side, with 80%, and with Raymond Curry
Supervisory Board is such that, in accordance with the pro- and Andrea Seidel on the employee side, and therefore with
visions of the German Co-Determination Act (“MitbestG”), 50% for the Supervisory Board as a whole.
by law, at least 30% of the members of the Supervisory
Board must be women and at least 30% men. Until this stat- – According to the recommendations of the GCGC on the inde-
utory gender quota became applicable, the Supervisory pendence of the members of the Supervisory Board, on the
Board by means of a resolution passed on December10, shareholder side, the Supervisory Board is to include what it
2021, set and met the target of having at least 30% women considers to be an appropriate number of independent
and 30% men. As of December 31, 2022, three women are members – also taking into account the shareholder struc-
represented on both the shareholder representatives and ture. A member is to be considered independent in this
employee representatives side. This means that the propor- sense if they are independent of the Company and its Board
tion of women on both sides and in the overall Supervisory of Management, and of any controlling shareholder. There is
Board is 30%. The gender ratio on the Supervisory Board no controlling shareholder in this sense at the Company;
thus complies with the legal requirements. against the background of the deconsolidation agreement
concluded with Mercedes-Benz Group AG, in particular
– Members who are proposed for election to the Supervisory Mercedes-Benz Group AG is also not to be regarded as a
Board for a full term of office should generally not be over controlling shareholder.
the age of 72 at the time of the election. In specifying this
general age limit, the Supervisory Board has intentionally The GCGC recommends that more than half of the share-
refrained from stipulating a strict upper age limit and holder representatives are to be independent of the Com-
instead decided in favor of a flexible age limit that provides pany and its Board of Management – and that these mem-
the necessary leeway for an appropriate assessment of the bers must always include the Chairman of the Supervisory
circumstances in the individual case, keeps the range of Board, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Chair-
potential Supervisory Board candidates sufficiently broad man of the committee that deals with the remuneration for
and allows reelection. None of the members of the Supervi- the Board of Management. Within the meaning of this rec-
sory Board in office on December 31, 2022 were older than ommendation, a Supervisory Board member is to be consid-
the general age limit at the time of their election. ered independent, if they have no personal or business rela-
tionship with the Company or its Board of Management that
may cause a substantial and not merely temporary conflict
of interest.
It is up to the shareholder representatives side of the Super-
visory Board to assess the independence of its members.
Four indicators of a possible lack of independence are to be
considered (membership of the Board of Management within
a period of two years prior to the appointment as member of
the Supervisory Board; a material business relationship with
the Company or an entity dependent on it, e.g., as a cus-
tomer, supplier, creditor or advisor; a close family relation-
ship with a member of the Board of Management; member-
ship in the Supervisory Board for more than twelve
years – all criteria apply both to Supervisory Board members – As a general rule and subject to the disclosure of an excep-
themselves and to their relevant close family members). At tion in the Declaration of Compliance with the GGCGC pur-
the same time, the shareholder representative side is suant to Section161 of the German Stock Corporation Act
expressly granted the right to consider a Supervisory Board (”AktG”), a Supervisory Board member who is also a member
member independent if one or even multiple indicators of the board of management of a listed company shall not
apply, although this assessment is to be explained in the hold more than two supervisory board mandates in non-
Declaration on Corporate Governance. group listed companies or comparable functions (including
their membership of the Supervisory Board of Daimler Truck
The Supervisory Board has concluded that – with the excep- Holding AG) and shall not chair the Supervisory Board of
tion of Renata Jungo Brüngger and Harald Wilhelm – all non-group listed companies. As a general rule and subject
shareholder representatives in office as of December 31, to the disclosure of an exception in the Declaration of Com-
2022 are independent of Daimler Truck Holding AG and its pliance with the GCGC pursuant to Section161 of the Ger-
Board of Management, including, in particular, the Chairman man Stock Corporation Act (”AktG”), Supervisory Board
of the Supervisory Board, who is also Chairman of the Presi- members who are not also members of the board of man-
dential and Remuneration Committee, and the Chairman of agement of a listed company may not serve on more than
the Audit Committee. five supervisory boards of non-group listed companies or
perform comparable functions (again including their mem-
Other than the two exceptions mentioned, also taking into bership of the Supervisory Board of Daimler Truck Holding
account the indicators of the GCGC, none of the shareholder AG), with the chair of one supervisory board being counted
representatives has a personal or commercial relationship twice. Dual mandates of Supervisory Board members in
with Daimler Truck Holding AG or its Board of Management other supervisory bodies of the same group are to be disre-
that could give rise to a material conflict of interest that is garded for the purposes of the calculation of the maximum
not merely temporary in nature. With regard to Renata Jungo number of mandates in accordance with the overall
Brüngger and Harald Wilhelm, it should be noted that both, requirements profile. Due to having dual mandates within
as acting members of the Board of Management of the same group, Renata Jungo Brüngger, Joe Kaeser, Harald
Mercedes-Benz Group AG (i.e., in a responsible function of a Wilhelm, and Jörg Köhlinger therefore do not exceed the
company outside the Group), maintain a significant business maximum number of mandates set out in the overall require-
relationship with the Company or a company dependent on ments profile. As of December 31, 2022, only Martin H.
this Company due to the extensive contractual interrelation- Richenhagen exceeded the maximum number of positions
ships that exist between the two groups also since the spin- set out in the requirements profile due to his taking up of
off became effective in December 2021. Against this back- another position in the reporting period. Joe Kaeser also
ground, neither is currently considered to be independent of exceeded the maximum number of positions according to
the Company within the meaning of recommendation C.7 of the requirements profile until his position ended in
the GCGC. June 2022. Nevertheless, the Supervisory Board is of the
opinion that the requirements profile is met entirely, since in
As a result – with the exception of Renata Jungo Brüngger the view of the Supervisory Board, there is no doubt that Joe
and Harald Wilhelm – all shareholder representatives on the Kaeser and Martin H. Richenhagen were and are able to per-
Supervisory Board were deemed to be independent, namely form all of the mandates they have assumed, in particular
Joe Kaeser, Michael Brosnan, Jacques Esculier, Akihiro Eto, that they have the time to do so, given the many years of
Laura Ipsen, John Krafcik, Martin H. Richenhagen and Marie extensive experience they each have. With regard to recom-
Wieck. mendations C.4 and C.5 of the GCGC, exceptions are speci-
fied and explained in the Declaration of Compliance with the
– The requirements profile also includes a general limit for the GCGC.
duration of membership, according to which, as a general
rule, only candidates who have been members of the Super- Proposals by the Supervisory Board for the election of share-
visory Board for no more than twelve years should be pro- holder representatives by the General Meeting, for which the
posed for reelection to the Supervisory Board for a full term Nomination Committee submits recommendations, are to take
of office. The requirement is met for all current members of into account the aspects outlined above and aim to satisfy the
the Supervisory Board. overall requirements profile for the Supervisory Board as a
whole. The Nomination Committee is to draw up a shortlist of
– Each candidate for membership of the Supervisory Board proposed members on the basis of a target profile, taking into
and each member of the Supervisory Board must be able to account the specific qualification requirements and the afore-
expend the expected time effort and be willing and able to mentioned criteria, hold structured discussions with these pro-
make a substantial commitment to the performance of the posed members, and in the process also obtain assurance that
required measures for training and continuing education. the proposed member has sufficient time to be able to exer-
Prior to each election proposal, the Supervisory Board cise the position with due care. The Nomination Committee
ensures that the candidates in question can expend the time then recommends a candidate to the Supervisory Board for its
effort required for the office. approval and includes an explanation of its recommendation.
Resolutions of the Supervisory Board regarding proposals for
candidates for election to the General Meeting shall always be
governed by the Company’s interests in consideration of all
circumstances in each individual case.
Qualification matrix for
the Supervisory Board
The status of implementation of the overall requirements
profile for the Supervisory Board can also be found in the
qualification matrix for shareholder representatives and the
qualification matrix for employee representatives shown
below:
C.01
Qualification matrix reflects implementation status of the overall requirements profile – shareholder representatives
As of 12/2022
)riahC(
reseaK nansorB reilucsE
otE
nespI ognuJ reggnürB kicfarK
negahnehciR
kceiW mlehliW
Educational and Technology    
Professional
Background Finance     
(as defined in overall audit1, acc.1
requirements profile) acc.1
Sustainability2 E, G G S S S, G S S, G G
Diversity Gender quota3
(as defined in overall (SB: 30% male male male male male female female male male female male
requirements profile) and 30% female)
General age limit
(max. 72 years          
at (re-)election4)
Generation mix
(min. 8 in SB max.
      
62 years at
(re)election4)
Internationality
(SR: min. 30% and        
total SB: 15%)
Personal Independence
       
Suitability (>50% of SR)1
(as defined in overall
Time effort          
requirements profile)
No overboarding5 6 7     6   6
General limit for
Membership Duration:          
12 years max.1 (2021) (2021) (2021) (2021) (2021) (2021) (2021) (2021) (2021) (2021)
(year of first election)
(E) Environment 1 As defined in GCGC
(S) Social 2 Expertise regarding sustainability issues relevant to Daimler Truck
(G) Governance 3 In accordance with German Stock Corporation Act (”AktG”)
(SB) Supervisory Board 4 SR election on June 22, 2022
(SR) Shareholder representative 5 Group mandates only counted once according to overall requirements profile
(acc.) Financial expert accounting 6 Overboarding in accordance with GCGC despite fulfillment of overall requirements profile
(audit) Financial expert audit 7 O verboarding in accordance with overall requirements profile ended on June 1, 2022 due to end of the mandate
for NXP Semiconductors N.V.
C.02
Qualification matrix reflects implementation status of the overall requirements profile – employee representatives
As of 12/2022
thcerB
)riahC
ytupeD(
rehcabhcsuB
yrruC
rellüM-hcsztilK
regnilhöK
zroL
htieR ledieS
regrebsleztiZ
kciwZ
Educational and Technology        
Professional
B ackground Finance   
(as defined in overall
requirements profile)
Sustainability2 E, S, G E S S G S S E, S, G
Diversity Gender quota3
(as defined in overall (SB: 30% male male male male female male male female female male male
requirements profile) and 30% female)
General age limit
(max. 72 years          
at (re-)election4)
Generation mix
(min. 8 in SB max.
         
62 years at
(re)election4)
Internationality
(SR: min. 30% and  
total SB: 15%)
Personal Independence
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Suitability (>50% of SR)1
(as defined in overall
Time effort          
requirements profile)
No overboarding5     6     
General limit for
duration of office:
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
12 years max.1
(year of first election)
(E) Environment 1 As defined in GCGC
(S) Social 2 Expertise regarding sustainability issues relevant to Daimler Truck
(G) Governance 3 In accordance with the German Stock Corporation Act (“AktG”)
(SB) Supervisory Board 4 ER election on November 22, 2022
(SR) Shareholder representative 5 Group mandates only counted once according to overall requirements profile
(ER) Employee representative 6 Overboarding in accordance with GCGC despite fulfillment of overall requirements profile
Managers’ transactions
Shareholders can submit motions on resolutions proposed by
the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board and
Members of the Board of Management and of the Supervisory challenge the resolutions made at the General Meeting. The
Board are legally required pursuant to Article19 Regulation reports, documents and information required by law for the
(EU) No. 596/2014 of the European Parliament and of the General Meeting, including the Annual Report, are available on
w
Council of April16, 2014 on market abuse (Market Abuse Regu- the Company’s Website, as is the agenda for the General
lation) to disclose transactions conducted for their own Meeting and any countermotions or election proposals from
account involving shares or debt instruments of Daimler Truck shareholders and other documents and information on the
Holding AG, related derivatives or other related financial instru- General Meeting.
ments, insofar as the total amount of the transactions con-
ducted by the member or related persons reaches or exceeds As part of our comprehensive investor relations activities we
the sum of €20,000 within a single calendar year. The transac- maintain close contact with our shareholders. We provide
tions disclosed to Daimler Truck Holding AG are duly published. shareholders, financial analysts, shareholder associations, the
media and interested members of the public with extensive
and regular information on the situation of the Company and
Shareholders and General Meeting
inform them immediately of any significant business changes.
The Chairman of the Supervisory Board is also regularly pre-
The shareholders exercise their membership rights, in particu- pared, within reasonable limits, to hold discussions with inves-
lar their voting rights, at the Company’s General Meeting. Each tors on issues relating specifically to the Supervisory Board.
share of Daimler Truck Holding AG entitles the holder to one
vote. At the General Meeting, shareholders regularly take deci- We make extensive use of the Company’s website for our
sions on, among other things, the appropriation of distribut- investor relations work, in addition to other communication
able profits, the election of the external auditor, the discharge channels. All material information published in the 2022 finan-
of the members of the Board of Management and the Supervi- cial year, including annual, quarterly and semi-annual financial
sory Board, the approval of the annual remuneration report, reports, press releases, voting rights notifications according to
and the election of shareholder representatives, which is regu- the German Securities Trading Act (Wertpapierhandelsgesetz
larly carried out as an individual election. The remuneration or “WpHG”), presentations and audio recordings from analyst
system for the Board of Management and the remuneration of and investor events and conference calls, as well as the finan-
w
members of the Supervisory Board must be submitted to the cial calendar, are available on the Company’s Website. The
General Meeting every four years at least. Amendments to the dates of major publications, such as the Annual Report and
Articles of Incorporation and certain capital measures are also interim financial reports, as well as the dates of the General
decided upon at the General Meeting and implemented by the Meeting, the Annual Results Conference and analysts’ confer-
Board of Management, and where necessary with the Supervi- ences are announced well in advance in the financial calendar.
sory Board’s approval.
Shareholders who are entered in the Company’s shareholder
register on the day of the General Meeting and who have regis-
tered in good time prior to the General Meeting in accordance
with the information provided in the convocation will be per-
mitted to attend the General Meeting and can exercise their
voting rights. The details, in particular of registration and the
stop on changes in the shareholder register required for tech-
nical reasons in the run-up to the General Meeting and the
options for exercising voting rights (by proxy, e.g., Company
proxies bound by instructions and possibly by postal vote), are
published together with the convocation to the General Meet-
ing in the German Federal Gazette (“Bundesanzeiger”).
Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Income 180
Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income 181
Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position 182
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 183
Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity 184
Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements 186
1. G eneral information and 21. Equity 230
significant accounting policies 186 22. Share-based payment 231
2. Accounting estimates and 23. P ensions and similar obligations 232
management judgments 203 24. Provisions for other risks 238
3. Consolidated Group 205 25. Financing liabilities 239
4. Business combinations 206 26. Other financial liabilities 240
5. Revenue 210 27. Deferred income 240
6. Functional costs 211 28. C ontract and refund liabilities 241
7. Other operating income and expenses 212 29. Other liabilities 241
8. Other financial income/expense, net 213 30. Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 242
9. Interest income and interest expense 213 31. Legal proceedings 243
10. Income taxes 213 32. C ontingent liabilities and
11. Intangible assets 217 other financial obligations 244
12. Property, plant and equipment 219 33. Financial instruments 245
13. Equipment on operating leases 220 34. Management of financial risks 255
14. Equity-method investments 221 35. Segment reporting 264
15. R eceivables from financial services 224 36. Capital management 268
16. M arketable debt securities and 37. Earnings per share 268
similar investments 226 38. R elated party disclosures 269
17. Other financial assets 227 39. R emuneration of the members
18. Other assets 227 of the Board of Management and
19. Inventories 228 the Supervisory Board 273
20. Trade receivables 228 40. Auditor fee 274
41. Events after the reporting period 274
42. Additional information 275
Consolidated Statement of Income
D.01
Note 2022 2021
In millions of euros
Revenue 5 50,945 39,764
Cost of sales 6 -41,513 -32,519
Gross profit 9,432 7,245
Selling expenses 6 -2,928 -2,722
General administrative expenses 6 -1,957 -1,635
Research and non-capitalized development costs 6 -1,618 -1,398
Other operating income 7 880 2,029
Other operating expense 7 -177 -348
Profit/loss on equity-method investments, net 14 -226 106
Other financial income/expense, net 8 90 80
Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) 35 3,496 3,357
Interest income 9 198 73
Interest expense 9 -245 -156
Profit before income taxes 3,449 3,274
Income taxes 10 -686 -891
Net profit 2,763 2,383
thereof profit attributable to non-controlling interests 98 36
thereof profit attributable to shareholders 2,665 2,347
Earnings per share (in euros) for profit attributable to shareholders 37
Basic and diluted 3.24 2.85
Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income1
D.02
2022 2021
In millions of euros
Net profit 2,763 2,383
Currency translation adjustments 54 429
Debt instruments
Unrealized gains/losses (pre-tax) 2 -
Taxes on unrealized gains/losses and on reclassifications - -
Debt instruments (after tax) 2 -
Derivative financial instruments
Unrealized gains/losses (pre-tax) 136 -28
Reclassifications to profit or loss (pre-tax) 6 19
Taxes on unrealized gains/losses and on reclassifications -33 -1
Derivative financial instruments (after tax) 109 -10
Items that may be reclassified to profit/loss 165 419
Equity instruments
Unrealized gains/losses (pre-tax) -11 -9
Taxes on unrealized gains/losses and on reclassifications -1 3
Equity instruments (after tax) -12 -6
Actuarial gains/losses from pensions and similar obligations (pre-tax) 1,320 1,059
Taxes on actuarial gains/losses from pensions and similar obligations -153 162
Actuarial gains/losses from pensions and similar obligations (after tax) 1,167 1,221
Items that will not be reclassified to profit/loss 1,155 1,215
Other comprehensive income/loss, net of taxes 1,320 1,634
thereof loss attributable to non-controlling interests, after taxes -31 -4
thereof income attributable to shareholders, after taxes 1,351 1,638
Total comprehensive income 4,083 4,017
thereof income attributable to non-controlling interests 67 32
thereof income attributable to shareholders 4,016 3,985
1 Refer to Note 21. Equity for further information on the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
D.03
At December 31,
Note 2022 2021
In millions of euros
Assets
Intangible assets 11 2,779 2,700
Property, plant and equipment 12 7,993 7,860
Equipment on operating leases 13 4,433 3,542
Equity-method investments 14 1,073 1,369
Receivables from financial services 15 12,359 8,943
Marketable debt securities and similar investments 16 21 34
Other financial assets 17 828 706
Deferred tax assets 10 1,643 1,388
Long-term trade receivables 20 105 21
Other assets 18 364 309
Total non-current assets 31,598 26,872
Inventories 19 8,815 7,793
Trade receivables 20 4,577 3,941
Receivables from financial services 15 10,066 7,155
Cash and cash equivalents 5,944 7,244
Marketable debt securities and similar investments 16 1,124 105
Other financial assets 17 677 654
Other assets 18 1,168 1,036
Total current assets 32,371 27,928
Total assets 63,969 54,800
Equity and liabilities
Share capital 823 823
Capital reserves 14,277 14,277
Retained earnings 5,847 1,886
Other reserves -895 -1,066
Equity attributable to shareholders 20,052 15,920
Non-controlling interests 554 503
Total equity 21 20,606 16,423
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 23 1,147 2,471
Provisions for other risks 24 2,743 2,645
Financing liabilities 25 13,328 11,120
Other financial liabilities 26 2,110 1,802
Deferred tax liabilities 10 65 68
Deferred income 27 1,000 1,111
Contract and refund liabilities 28 1,940 1,785
Other liabilities 29 53 31
Total non-current liabilities 22,386 21,033
Trade payables 5,317 4,359
Provisions for other risks 24 2,206 2,045
Financing liabilities 25 7,511 5,479
Other financial liabilities 26 2,716 2,498
Deferred income 27 655 664
Contract and refund liabilities 28 1,871 1,634
Other liabilities 29 701 665
Total current liabilities 20,977 17,344
Total equity and liabilities 63,969 54,800
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows1
D.04
2022 2021
In millions of euros
Profit before income taxes 3,449 3,274
Depreciation and amortization/impairments 1,120 1,160
Other non-cash expense and income 300 -737
Gains (-)/losses (+) on disposals of assets -15 -624
Change in operating assets and liabilities
Inventories -1,143 -1,307
Trade receivables -631 -348
Trade payables 904 1,171
Receivables from financial services -3,385 66
Vehicles on operating leases -141 186
Cash outflows from the settlement of pre-existing relationships -171 -
Other operating assets and liabilities 277 -118
Dividends received from equity-method investments 13 12
Income taxes paid -1,100 -635
Cash flows from operating activities -523 2,100
Additions to property, plant and equipment -898 -762
Additions to intangible assets -234 -318
Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 106 114
Proceeds from the disposal of shares in Daimler Truck Fuel Cell GmbH & Co. KG - 634
Proceeds from disposals of shareholdings 52 136
Net cash outflows from the acquisition of financial service business -2,059 -
Net cash inflows from the acquisition of financial service business 55 -
Investments in other shareholdings -213 -302
Acquisition of marketable debt securities and similar investments -4,498 -1,634
Proceeds from sales of marketable debt securities and similar investments 3,509 6,296
Other 13 96
Cash flows from investing activities -4,167 4,260
Change in short-term financing liabilities -1,649 529
Additions to long-term financing liabilities 10,327 13,304
Repayment of long-term financing liabilities -5,269 -7,418
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests -52 -26
Transactions with the Mercedes-Benz Group until the spin-off -23 -7,264
Cash flows from financing activities 3,334 -875
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 56 96
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents -1,300 5,581
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 7,244 1,663
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 5,944 7,244
1 Refer to Note 30. Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for further information on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity¹
D.05
Other reserves
items that
may be reclassified
in profit/loss
Invested equity
attributable to the Equity
Mercedes-Benz instruments/
Share Capital Group2/ Currency debt
capital reserveRetained earnings3 translation instruments
In millions of euros
Balance at January 1, 2021 - - 9,703 -1,525 19
Net profit - - 2,347 - -
Other comprehensive income before taxes - - 1,059 433 -9
Deferred taxes on other comprehensive income - - 162 - 3
Total comprehensive income - - 3,568 433 -6
Dividends to Non-controlling interests - - - - -
Transactions with the Mercedes-Benz Group - - 3,672 - -
Allocation of invested equity according to the legal structure3 823 14,277 -15,100 - -
Other changes - - 43 - -
Balance at December 31, 2021 823 14,277 1,886 -1,092 13
Balance at January 1, 2022 823 14,277 1,886 -1,092 13
Net profit - - 2,665 - -
Other comprehensive income before taxes - - 1,333 72 -9
Deferred taxes on other comprehensive income - - -153 - -1
Total comprehensive income - - 3,845 72 -10
Dividends to Non-controlling interests - - - - -
Other changes - - 116 - -
Balance at December 31, 2022 823 14,277 5,847 -1,020 3
1 Refer to Note 21. Equity for further information on changes in equity.
2 Until the spin-off on December 9 2021, the net assets attributable to the Daimler Truck companies within the Mercedes-Benz Group were reported as
invested equity. Daimler Truck companies’ transactions with the Mercedes-Benz Group’s companies recognized directly in equity were reported separately.
After the spin-off, the invested equity was divided up in accordance with the legal structure and the articles of incorporation of Daimler Truck Holding AG as
the Daimler Truck Group’s parent company; transactions with the companies of the Mercedes-Benz Group recognized in equity are reported as transactions
with shareholders in the item Other changes. For more information refer to Note 21. Equity.
3 Retained earnings also include items that will not be reclassified to the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Derivative Equity Non-
financial attributable to controlling Total
instruments shareholders interests equity
In millions of euros
28 8,225 483 8,708 Balance at January 1, 2021
- 2,347 36 2,383 Net profit
-9 1,474 -4 1,470 Other comprehensive income before taxes
-1 164 - 164 Deferred taxes on other comprehensive income
-10 3,985 32 4,017 Total comprehensive income
- - -26 -26 Dividends to Non-controlling interests
- 3,672 - 3,672 Transactions with the Mercedes-Benz Group
- - - - Allocation of invested equity according to the legal structure3
-5 38 14 52 Other changes
13 15,920 503 16,423 Balance at December 31, 2021
13 15,920 503 16,423 Balance at January 1, 2022
- 2,665 98 2,763 Net profit
142 1,538 -31 1,507 Other comprehensive income before taxes
-33 -187 - -187 Deferred taxes on other comprehensive income
109 4,016 67 4,083 Total comprehensive income
- - -52 -52 Dividends to Non-controlling interests
- 116 36 152 Other changes
122 20,052 554 20,606 Balance at December 31, 2022
Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements
1. General information and significant
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Euros.
accounting policies Amounts are stated in millions of Euros, except where other-
wise indicated. Rounding differences may arise when individual
amounts or percentages are added together.
General information
The accompanying consolidated financial statements of The Consolidated Financial Statements were prepared on
Daimler Truck Holding AG (the “Consolidated Financial State- March 9, 2023 by the Board of Management of Daimler Truck
ments”) have been prepared in accordance with Section 315e Holding AG and approved for publication.
of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch or
“HGB”) and comply with the International Financial Reporting Accounting policies
Standards and the interpretations of the IFRS Interpretations
Committee as adopted by the European Union (“EU”) (“IFRS”). IFRS applied
The Consolidated Financial Statements at December 31, 2022
The Consolidated Financial Statements present the operations have been prepared in accordance with the IFRS applicable for
of Daimler Truck Holding AG (“DTHAG”) and its subsidiaries periods beginning on or after January1, 2022. The accounting
(also referred to as “Daimler Truck”, the “Daimler Truck Group” policies applied in the Consolidated Financial Statements
or the “Group”). therefore comply with the IFRS required to be applied in the
EU as of December 31, 2022 for all periods presented.
Daimler Truck Holding AG is a stock corporation organized
under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany. The Com- However, to present assets and liabilities, income and
pany is domiciled in Stuttgart and entered in the Commercial expenses fully retrospectively, Management had to use judg-
Register of the District Court of Stuttgart under No. HRB ment in developing and applying accounting policies in order to
778600 with its business address at Fasanenweg10, 70771 produce information that is relevant to users, reliable and free
Leinfelden-Echterdingen, Germany. from bias, and complete in all material respects for the time
periods when the Group had not yet been a consolidated
The Daimler Truck Group is a manufacturer of commercial group. Such special considerations are discussed below with
vehicles with a worldwide product range of trucks and buses. respect to the presentation of the Consolidated Financial
Its product portfolio is rounded out by a range of financial Statements, and otherwise in the respective Notes.
services. Daimler Truck Holding AG is the ultimate parent com-
pany of the Daimler Truck Group. IFRS issued, endorsed by the EU and adopted in the
reporting period for the first time
The commercial vehicle business comprises the four automo- No new standards or other amendments and improvements to
E
tive segments (refer to Note 35. Segment reporting) that standards have been adopted that are mandatory for financial
engage in the production of trucks, buses, engines, and pro- years beginning on January1, 2022 and are expected to have a
vide related services and have divisions which produce and material impact on the profitability, liquidity and capital
market brand-specific products. Other business activities and resources and financial position of the Group.
investments, as well as functions and services provided by the
Group’s headquarters and other Group companies not allo- IFRS issued, but not yet adopted
cated to the automotive segments and projects managed by In May 2017, the International Accounting Standards Board
headquarters are reported under Reconciliation in the segment (“IASB”) issued the standard IFRS17 – Insurance contracts.
reporting. The automotive segments and Reconciliation, The standard was endorsed in the EU in November 2021.
together, are referred to as the “Industrial Business”. All the IFRS17 will replace the currently applicable IFRS 4 – Insurance
related financial services activities, which constitute one addi- contracts. It establishes more transparency and comparability
tional segment, are referred to as “Financial Services”. regarding the recognition, measurement, presentation and dis-
closure of insurance contracts with the insurer. The application
The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the Consoli- of IFRS17 is mandatory for reporting periods beginning on or
dated Statement of Income, the Consolidated Statement of after January1, 2023. Early adoption is permitted. The Board of
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Finan- Management of the Company currently does not expect any
cial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the material impacts on the Group’s profitability, liquidity and capi-
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the Notes to tal resources and financial position due to the application of
the Consolidated Financial Statements, prepared on a going IFRS17. Early adoption is not currently planned.
concern basis.
In addition, further amendments and improvements to stan- Presentation
dards have been issued which are partially endorsed and not
yet applied and which are not expected to have a material Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
impact on the Group’s profitability, liquidity and capital Presentation in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Posi-
resources and financial position. tion differentiates between current and non-current assets and
liabilities. Assets and liabilities are generally classified as cur-
Sustainability rent if they are expected to be realized or settled within one
Sustainability is an important part of the long-term objectives year. Deferred tax assets and liabilities as well as assets and
and thus of many strategic projects of the Daimler Truck provisions for pensions and similar obligations are generally
Group. The aim is to develop sustainable and consequently presented as non-current items.
future-proof transport solutions for goods traffic and passen-
ger transport and to put them on the road. This also includes Consolidated Statement of Income
Daimler Truck Group’s objective to offer only new vehicles that The Consolidated Statement of Income is presented using the
are CO -neutral in driving operation by 2039 in Europe, North cost-of-sales method.
2
America and Japan. Sustainability is an integral part of the core
business and part of corporate responsibility. Measurement
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on
This strategic focus is having an impact in particular in the cap- the historical-cost basis with the exception of certain items
italization of development costs for the eActros or the eCanter, such as financial assets measured at fair value through profit
as well as in the investment in strategic partnerships in 2022, or loss, derivative financial instruments, hedged items, and
such as the founding of joint ventures Commercial Vehicle pensions and similar obligations. The measurement models
Charging Europe BV (“CVCharg”) to set up and operate a Euro- applied to those exceptions are described below.
pean high-performance network for battery-powered trucks
and coaches or Greenlane Infrastructure, LLC to set up and Principles of consolidation
operate a network of accessible charging stations for medium- The Consolidated Financial Statements include the financial
and electric and fuel-cell or hydrogen-powered trucks as well statements of Daimler Truck Holding AG and the financial
as buses in the USA and Canada. statements of all subsidiaries, including structured entities,
which are directly or indirectly controlled by Daimler Truck
The development of a hydrogen-powered vehicle consists, on Holding AG. Control exists if the parent company has the
the one hand, of the cellcentric GmbH & Co. KG (“cellcentric”) power of decision over a subsidiary based on voting rights or
joint venture, which develops and produces the fuel cell drive, other rights, if it participates in positive and negative variable
and, on the other hand, of its own vehicle developments for returns from a subsidiary, and if it can affect these returns by
this drive technology. its power of decision.
In the commercial vehicle industry, there are different laws in Structured entities which are controlled also have to be con-
different regions, which are also reflected in the objectives of a solidated. Accordingly, the assets and liabilities are recognized
complete green production and supply chain by 2039 in in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Struc-
Europe, North America and Japan. The development activities tured entities are entities which have been designed so that
are based on the goal of meeting these environmental require- voting or similar rights are not relevant in deciding who con-
ments. trols the entity. This is the case for example if voting rights
relate to administrative tasks only and the relevant activities
Capitalized development costs amounted to €167 million in are directed by means of contractual arrangements.
2022 (2021: €176 million). The proportion of development
costs for combustion engines will continue to decrease and The financial statements of consolidated subsidiaries which
the proportion of emission-free vehicles will continue to are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements are pre-
increase. pared as of the reporting date of the Consolidated Financial
Statements. The financial statements of Daimler Truck Hold-
In addition, the Daimler Truck Group plans that emission-free ing AG and its subsidiaries included in the Consolidated Finan-
vehicles can be largely manufactured at the existing produc- cial Statements are prepared using uniform recognition and
tion facilities. This is already happening at the large production measurement principles. All intra-Group assets and liabilities,
sites in Germany and in the USA. Accordingly, this gives the equity, income and expenses, except gains and losses from
ability to respond flexibly to customer demand in the future. foreign currency translation, as well as cash flows from trans-
actions between consolidated entities, are eliminated in the
course of the consolidation process.
Investments in associated companies, joint ventures or Foreign currency translation
joint operations Transactions in foreign currency are translated at the relevant
An associated company is an entity over which the Group has foreign exchange rates prevailing at the transaction date. In
significant influence. Significant influence is the power to par- subsequent periods, assets and liabilities denominated in for-
ticipate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the eign currency are translated using period-end exchange rates;
investee. Associated companies are generally accounted for gains and losses from this measurement are recognized in
using the equity method. profit or loss (except for gains and losses resulting from the
translation of equity instruments measured at fair value
For entities over which the Daimler Truck Group has joint con- through other comprehensive income, which are recognized in
trol together with a partner (joint arrangements), it is neces- other comprehensive income).
sary to differentiate whether a joint operation or a joint ven-
ture exists. In a joint venture, the parties that have joint Assets and liabilities of foreign companies for which the func-
control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the tional currency is not the Euro are translated into Euros using
arrangement. For joint ventures, the equity method has to be period-end exchange rates. The translation adjustments are
applied. A joint operation exists when the jointly controlling presented in other comprehensive income. The components of
parties have direct rights to the assets and obligations for the equity are translated using historical rates. The Consolidated
liabilities. In this case, the prorated assets and liabilities and Statement of Income and the Consolidated Statement of Cash
the prorated income and expenses are generally to be recog- Flows are translated into Euros using the average exchange
nized (proportionate consolidation). Joint operations that have during the quarters of the financial years 2022 and 2021.
no significant impact on the Consolidated Financial State-
ments are generally accounted for using the equity method. The exchange rates of the US dollar, the Brazilian real, and the
Japanese yen – the most significant foreign currencies for the
Entities measured at amortized cost Daimler Truck Group – are as shown in table  D.06.
Subsidiaries, associated companies, joint ventures and joint
operations whose business is non-active or of low volume and
that individually and in sum are not material for the Group and
the fair presentation of profitability, liquidity and capital
resources and financial position are generally measured at
amortized cost in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
D.06
Exchange rates
December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
USD BRL JPY USD BRL JPY
€1 = €1 = €1 = €1 = €1 = €1 =
First quarter 1.1217 5.8696 130.4600 1.2048 6.5990 127.8100
Second quarter 1.0647 5.2384 138.2100 1.2058 6.3813 131.9300
Third quarter 1.0070 5.2834 139.1600 1.1788 6.1593 129.7600
Fourth quarter 1.0205 5.3700 144.2400 1.1435 6.3821 130.0100
Spot exchange rate 1.0666 5.6386 140.6600 1.1326 6.3101 130.38
Hyperinflation Arrangements such as when the Daimler Truck Group provides
To determine whether a country is to be considered as in customers with a guaranteed minimum resale value that they
hyperinflation, the Daimler Truck Group refers to the list pub- receive on resale (residual-value guarantee) do not constraint
lished by the International Practices Task Force (IPTF), the the customers in their ability to direct the use of, and obtain
Center for Audit Quality and other relevant international publi- substantially all of the benefits from, the asset. At contract
cations. If a country is in hyperinflation, IAS 29 Financial inception of a sale with a residual-value guarantee, revenue
Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies has to be applied therefore has to be recognized, reduced by a potential com-
from the beginning of the respective reporting period, i.e. from pensation payment to the customer (“revenue deferral”).
January1 of the respective reporting year.
Under a contract manufacturing agreement, the Daimler Truck
In addition to Argentina, Turkey has also been classified as a Group sells assets to a third-party manufacturer from which
high-inflation country since this reporting year. The activities the Daimler Truck Group buys back the manufactured products
of the Daimler Truck Group in both countries are recognized in after completion of the commissioned work. If the sale of the
accordance with IAS 29 if the functional currency is the local assets is not accompanied by the transfer of control to the
currency. The accounting impact is included in retained earn- third-party manufacturer, no revenue is recognized under
ings within “Other” in the Consolidated Statement of Changes IFRS15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
in Equity.
The Group offers extended, separately priced warranties for
Revenue recognition certain products as well as service and maintenance contracts.
Revenue from sales of vehicles, service parts and other related Revenue from these contracts is deferred insofar as a cus-
products is recognized when control of the goods is trans- tomer has made an advance payment and is generally recog-
ferred to the customer. This generally occurs at the time when nized over the contract period in proportion to the costs
the customer takes possession of the products. expected to be incurred based on historical information. A loss
on these contracts is recognized in the current period if the
Generally, payment from sales of vehicles, service parts and expected costs for outstanding services under the contract
other related products is made when the customer obtains exceed unearned revenue. Usually, those contracts are paid in
control of these products. advance or in equal instalments over the contract term.
Dealers may finance their vehicle inventory by means of dealer For multiple-element arrangements, such as when vehicles are
inventory financing provided by Financial Services, as sold with free or reduced-in-price maintenance programs or
E
described in Note 35. Segment reporting. Furthermore, with free online services, the Group generally allocates reve-
end-customers may be credit financed by Financial Services. nue to the various elements based on their estimated relative
Receivables from sales financing with end-customers and deal- stand-alone selling prices. To determine stand-alone selling
ers are presented in receivables from financial services. Fur- prices, the Daimler Truck Group primarily uses price lists with
E
ther information is provided in Note15. Receivables from consideration of average price reductions granted to its cus-
financial services. tomers.
Revenue recognition from the sale of vehicles for which the Vehicles may be initially sold to non-Group dealers. Subse-
Group enters into a repurchase obligation is dependent on the quently, a customer may decide to enter into a leasing contract
form of the repurchase agreement: with Financial Services regarding such a vehicle. The vehicle is
therefore sold by the non-Group dealer to Financial Services
– Sales of vehicles by which the Daimler Truck Group is and a leasing contract is entered into with the customer. When
obliged to repurchase the vehicles in the future are control of the vehicle is transferred to the non-Group dealer,
accounted for as operating leases. This also applies to a call the Daimler Truck Group recognizes revenue from the sale of
option that only grants the Daimler Truck Group the right to the vehicle.
repurchase;
The incremental cost of obtaining contracts is recognized as an
– Sales of vehicles including a put option (an entity’s obliga- expense when incurred if the amortization period would be no
tion to repurchase the asset at the customer’s request) are longer than one year.
reported as operating leases if the customer has a signifi-
cant economic incentive to exercise that right at contract
inception. Otherwise, a sale with a right of return is reported.
The Daimler Truck Group considers several factors when
assessing whether the customer has a significant economic
incentive to exercise his right. Amongst others, these are
the relation between the agreed repurchase price and the
expected future market value (at the time of repurchase) of
the asset, or historical return rates.
The Daimler Truck Group does not adjust the promised amount Research and non-capitalized development costs
of consideration for the effects of a significant financing com- Expenditure for research and development that does not meet
ponent if at contract inception it is expected that the period the conditions for capitalization according to IAS 38 Intangible
between the transfer of a promised good or service to a cus- Assets is expensed as incurred.
tomer and payment by the customer will be no longer than one
year. Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred unless they are
Revenue also includes revenue from the rental and leasing directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or produc-
business as well as interest from the Financial Services busi- tion of a qualifying asset and are therefore part of the cost of
ness. Revenue generated from operating leases is recognized that asset. Depreciation of the capitalized borrowing costs is
on a straight-line basis over the periods of the contracts. In presented within cost of sales.
addition, sales revenue is generated at the end of lease con-
tracts from the subsequent sale of the vehicles. Revenue from Government grants
receivables from financial services is recognized using the Government grants related to assets are deducted from the
effective interest method. carrying amount of the asset and are recognized in earnings
over the life of a depreciable asset as a reduced depreciation
The Daimler Truck Group uses a variety of sales-promotion pro- expense. Government grants which compensate the Group for
grams dependent on various market conditions in individual expenses are recognized as other operating income in the
countries as well as the respective product life cycles and same period as the expenses themselves.
product-related factors (such as amounts of discounts offered
by competitors, excess industry production capacity, the inten- Profit/loss on equity-method investments, net
sity of market competition and consumer demand for the prod- This item includes all income and expenses in connection with
ucts). These programs comprise cash offers to dealers and investments accounted for using the equity method. In addi-
customers, as well as lease subsidies or loans at reduced inter- tion to the prorated profits and losses from financial invest-
est rates, which are reported as follows: ments, it also includes profits and losses resulting from the
sale of equity interests or the remeasurement of equity inter-
– Revenue is recognized net of sales reductions such as cash ests following a loss of significant influence or joint control.
discounts and sales incentives granted. The Daimler Truck Group’s share of dilution gains and losses
resulting from the Group’s non-participation or disproportion-
– When loans are issued below market rates, the related ately low participation in capital measures of companies in
receivables are recognized at present value (using market which shares are held and are accounted for using the equity
rates) and revenue is reduced for the interest incentive method are also included in profit/loss on equity-method
granted. investments. This item also includes impairment losses and/or
gains on the reversal of such impairments of equity-method
– If subsidized leasing fees are agreed upon in connection investments.
with finance leases, revenue from the sale of a vehicle is
reduced by the amount of the interest incentive granted. Other financial income/expense, net
Other financial income/expense, net includes all income and
expense from financial transactions which are included neither
in interest income nor in interest expense, and which for the
Financial Services segment are included neither in revenue nor
in cost of sales. For example, the expense from the compound-
ing of interest on provisions for other risks is recognized in this
line item.
Furthermore, income and expenses from equity interests are
included in other financial income/expense, net, if such
income or expenses are not presented under equity-method
investments.
Interest income and interest expense The Daimler Truck Group does not recognize deferred tax
Interest income and interest expense include interest income assets on temporary differences, tax loss carryforwards and
from investments in securities and from cash and cash equiva- tax credits if it is not probable that future taxable income will
lents as well as interest expense from liabilities. Furthermore, be available against which the deductible temporary differ-
interest and changes in fair values related to interest rate ences, tax loss carryforwards and tax credits can be utilized.
hedging activities as well as income and expense resulting
from the allocation of premiums and discounts are included. Measurement is based on the tax rates that are expected to
The interest components of defined benefit pension obligations apply to the period when the asset is realized or the liability is
and other similar obligations as well as of the plan assets avail- settled. For this purpose, tax rates and tax laws are used
able to cover these obligations and interest on supplementary which have been substantively enacted at the reporting date.
income tax payments or reimbursements are also presented in
this line item. Changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities are generally rec-
ognized in deferred tax income or expense inside profit or loss,
For the Financial Services segment, interest income and except for changes recognized in other comprehensive income
expense and gains or losses from derivative financial instru- or directly in equity.
ments related to the financial services business are disclosed
under revenue and cost of sales respectively. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented separately as
non-current items on the balance sheet.
Income taxes
Income taxes comprise of current income taxes and deferred Deferred tax liabilities for taxable temporary differences asso-
taxes. ciated with investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates
and interests in joint arrangements are not recognized if the
Current income taxes are calculated based on the respective Daimler Truck Group is able to control the timing of the rever-
local taxable income and local tax laws for the period. In addi- sal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the tem-
tion, current income taxes include amounts for uncertain tax porary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
payments or tax refunds for periods not yet finally assessed,
but exclude interest expenses, interest refunds and penalties Earnings per share
concerning uncertain income tax positions. Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit
attributable to shareholders of the Daimler Truck Group by the
If it is probable that a taxation authority will not accept an weighted-average number of shares outstanding. As there
uncertain tax treatment, a tax expense or income for uncertain were no dilutive effects in 2022 and 2021, diluted earnings per
income tax positions is recognized. The amount is based on share correspond to basic earnings per share in these years.
the best estimate of the expected tax payment (expected value
or most likely amount). Only in the case of tax loss carryfor- Intangible assets
wards or unused tax credits, no current tax liabilities or tax Intangible assets are measured at acquisition or manufacturing
refunds are recognized for these uncertain tax positions. cost less accumulated amortization. If necessary, accumulated
Instead, the deferred tax assets for the unused tax loss carry- impairment losses are recognized.
forwards or tax credits are adjusted.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are reviewed annu-
Current tax liabilities and assets are presented as income tax ally to determine whether indefinite-life assessment continues
liabilities and assets on the balance sheet. to be appropriate. If not, the change in the useful-life assess-
ment from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
Deferred tax assets or liabilities are calculated on the basis of
temporary differences between the tax basis and the carrying Development costs for vehicles and components are recog-
amount of assets and liabilities as well as on unused tax loss nized if the conditions for capitalization according to IAS 38
carryforwards and unused tax credits. No deferred tax assets are met. Subsequent to initial recognition, the asset is carried
or liabilities are recognized for temporary differences resulting at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated
from the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a trans- impairment losses. Capitalized development costs include all
action which neither constitutes a business combination nor direct costs and allocable overheads and are amortized on a
affects accounting or taxable profit (initial recognition exemp- straight-line basis over the expected product life cycle (in gen-
tion). eral with a maximum amortization period of ten years). Amorti-
zation of capitalized development costs is an element of manu-
facturing costs and is allocated to those vehicles and
components by which they were generated and is included in
cost of sales when the inventory (vehicles) is sold.
Other intangible assets with finite useful lives are generally Leasing
amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives (three Leases include all contracts that transfer the right-to-use a
to ten years). The amortization period for intangible assets specified asset for a stated period of time in exchange for con-
with finite useful lives is reviewed at least at each year-end. sideration, even if the right-to-use such asset is not explicitly
Changes in expected useful lives are treated as changes in described in the contract. The Group is a lessee mainly of
accounting estimates. The amortization expense on intangible real-estate properties and a lessor of its products.
assets with finite useful lives is recognized in functional costs.
Daimler Truck Group as lessee
With acquisitions of businesses, goodwill represents the The Daimler Truck Group as a lessee recognizes, for generally
excess of the consideration transferred over the fair values all lease contracts, right-of-use assets as well as correspond-
assigned to the identifiable assets proportionally acquired and ing leasing liabilities for the outstanding lease payments.
liabilities assumed. If the amount is less than the fair value of
the individually identifiable acquired assets and liabilities, the According to IFRS16 – Leases, a lessee may elect, for leases
difference is recognized directly through profit or loss as an with a lease term of twelve months or less (short-term leases)
acquisition at a price below market value. Goodwill is and for leases for which the underlying asset is of low value,
accounted for at the subsidiaries in the functional currency of not to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability. The
each subsidiary. Daimler Truck Group applies both recognition exemptions. The
lease payments associated with those leases are generally rec-
In connection with obtaining control, non-controlling interest ognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease
in the acquiree is principally recognized at the proportionate term or on another systematic basis if appropriate.
share of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, which are measured
at fair value. Right-of-use assets, which are included under property, plant
and equipment, are initially measured at cost. The cost of a
Property, plant and equipment right-of-use asset comprises the amount of the initial measure-
Property, plant and equipment are measured at acquisition or ment of the lease liability, any lease payments made at or
manufacturing costs less accumulated depreciation. If neces- before the commencement date, less any lease incentives
sary, accumulated impairment losses are recognized. received from the lessor, any initial direct costs and an esti-
mate of costs to be incurred in dismantling or removing the
The costs of internally produced equipment and facilities underlying asset.
include all direct costs and allocable overheads. Acquisition or
manufacturing costs include estimated costs, if any, of disman- Lease liabilities, which are assigned to financing liabilities, are
tling, restoration and removals. measured initially at the present value of the lease payments.
The lease liabilities include the following lease payments:
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over the useful
lives as shown in table  D.07. – fixed payments including de-facto fixed payments, less lease
incentives receivables from the lessor;
D.07 – variable lease payments linked to an index or interest rate;
Useful lives of property, plant and equipment
– amounts expected to be payable under residual-value guar-
Buildings1 10 to 50 years
antees;
Leasehold improvements Period of the lease
Technical equipment and machinery 5 to 25 years
– the exercise price of purchase options, when exercise is esti-
Other equipment, factory and office equipment 3 to 30 years
mated to be reasonably certain and
1 Buildings include any related improvements.
– contractual penalties for the termination of a lease if the
lease term reflects the exercise of a termination option.
The Daimler Truck Group generally also applies the option for Sale and leaseback
contracts comprising lease components as well as non-lease In a sale and leaseback transaction, the requirements of
components not to split these components. IFRS15 are applied to ascertain whether the transfer of an
asset has to be accounted for as a sale.
Lease payments are discounted at the rate implicit in the lease
if that rate can readily be determined. Otherwise, discounting If the transfer of an asset does not satisfy the requirements of
is at the incremental borrowing rate. The incremental borrow- IFRS15 to be accounted for as a sale of the asset, the trans-
ing rate, which is mainly applied at the Daimler Truck Group, is ferred asset is still recognized and a financial liability is recog-
based on risk-adjusted interest rates and determined for the nized equal to the transfer proceeds in accordance with IFRS 9
respective lease terms and currencies. As the cash flow pat- – Financial instruments.
tern of the reference interest rates (bullet bonds) does not cor-
respond to the cash flow pattern of a lease contract (annuity), If the transfer of an asset is accounted for as a sale, the lessee
we use a duration adjustment in order to account for that dif- accounting principles described above apply to those sold
ference. assets if the Daimler Truck Group leases them back from the
buyer. Accordingly, only the amount of any gain or loss that
A right-of-use asset is subsequently measured at cost less any relates to the rights transferred to the buyer-lessor is recog-
accumulated depreciation and, if necessary, any accumulated nized.
impairment. If the lease transfers ownership of the underlying
asset to the lessee at the end of the lease term or if the cost of Daimler Truck Group as lessor
the right-of-use asset reflects that the lessee will exercise a Based on the risk and rewards associated with a leased asset,
purchase option, the right-of-use asset is depreciated to the it is assessed whether economic ownership of the leased asset
end of the useful life of the underlying asset. Otherwise, the is transferred to the lessee (so-called finance leases) or
right-of-use asset is depreciated to the end of the lease term. remains with the lessor (so-called operating leases).
In the subsequent measurement of a lease liability, the carry- Operating leases, i.e. by which economic ownership of the
ing amount is increased to reflect interest on the lease liability vehicle remains at the Daimler Truck Group, relate to vehicles
(through profit or loss) and reduced by lease payments made. that the Group produces itself and leases to third-parties.
Additionally, an operating lease may have to be reported with
According to IFRS16, the depreciation of right-of-use assets is sales of vehicles for which the Group enters into a repurchase
recognized within functional costs. The interest due on the obligation:
lease liability is a component of interest expense.
– Sales of vehicles by which the Daimler Truck Group is
Extension and termination options are part of a number of obliged to repurchase the vehicles in the future are
leases, particularly of real-estate. Such contract terms offer accounted for as operating leases.
the Daimler Truck Group the greatest possible flexibility. In
determining the lease term, all facts and circumstances offer- – Sales of vehicles including a put option (an entity’s obliga-
ing economic incentives for exercising extension options or not tion to repurchase the asset at the customer’s request) are
exercising termination options are taken into account. In deter- reported as operating leases if the customer has a signifi-
mining the lease term, those options are only considered if cant economic incentive to exercise that right. Otherwise, a
they are reasonably certain. sale with a right of return is reported. The Daimler Truck
Group considers several factors when assessing whether a
customer has a significant economic incentive to exercise
his right at contract inception. Amongst others, these are
the relation between repurchase price and the expected
future market value (at the time of repurchase) of the asset
or historical return rates.
As part of the residual-value management process, especially Transfer of Phase 2 legal entities and operations from the
for operating lease contracts, certain assumptions are regu- Mercedes-Benz Group as part of the spin-off
larly made at local and corporate levels regarding the expected In the context of the separation of the commercial vehicle
level of prices, based upon which the vehicles to be returned business from the Mercedes-Benz Group in 2021, Daimler
in the leasing business are evaluated. If changing market devel- Truck Holding AG entered into a spin-off and hive-down agree-
opments lead to a negative deviation from assumptions, there ment (“demerger agreement”), which took effect upon entry in
is a risk of lower residual-values of used vehicles. Depending the commercial register of Mercedes-Benz Group AG as the
on the region and the current market situation, the measures transferring legal entity on December 9, 2021 (“spin-off”).
taken generally include continuous market monitoring as well
as, if required, price-setting strategies or sales-promotion As part of the spin-off, Daimler Truck Holding AG committed to
measures designed to regulate vehicle inventories. The quality acquire the truck and bus-related lease portfolios as well as
of market forecasts is verified by regular comparisons of inter- wholesale and retail loan portfolios from the Mercedes-Benz
nal and external sources, and, if required, the determination of Group via asset deals or share deals in 2022 (“Phase 2 trans-
residual-values is adjusted and further developed with regard actions”). The purchase of Phase 2 legal entities and opera-
to methods, processes and systems. tions commenced in April 2022. For more information, refer to
E
Note 4. Business combinations.
In the case of accounting as an operating lease, these vehicles
are capitalized at (depreciated) cost of production under Before the acquisition, there were already existing contractual
leased equipment and are depreciated over the contract term relationships between the Daimler Truck Group as the acquirer
on a straight-line basis with consideration of the expected and the acquired truck and bus-related financial services busi-
residual-values. Changes in the expected residual-values lead ness (“pre-existing relationships”) in the context of the trans-
either to prospective adjustments of the scheduled deprecia- fer of trucks/buses to the financial services companies for
tion or, if necessary, to an impairment loss. The vehicles are renting to end customers as well as from the assumption of
allocated to the segment which bears substantially all of the opportunities and risks from residual values. These contractual
residual-value risk. relationships were terminated with the acquisition of the
Financial Services companies. The fair value of the pre-existing
Operating leases also relate to vehicles, primarily Daimler relationships was measured using the discounted cash flow
Truck Group products that Financial Services acquires from method. This results in an amount that corresponds to the ter-
non-Group dealers or other third-parties and leases to end mination amount and the value of the non-market component
customers. These vehicles are presented at (amortized) cost of of the contracts. Existing assets and liabilities of the Daimler
acquisition under leased equipment in the Financial Services Truck Group as the acquirer were also taken into account.
segment. If these vehicles are Group products and are subsi-
dized, the subsidies are deducted from the cost of acquisition. Equity-method investments
After revenue is received from the sale to independent dealers, On the date of acquisition, a positive difference between cost
these Group products generate revenue from lease payments of acquisition and the Daimler Truck Group’s share of the fair
and subsequent resale on the basis of the separate leasing values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the associated
contracts. The revenue received from the sale of Group prod- company or joint venture is determined and recognized as
ucts to the dealers is estimated by the Group as being of the investor level goodwill. The goodwill is included in the carrying
magnitude of the respective addition to leased equipment at amount of the equity-method investment. If an equity interest
Financial Services. In 2022, additions to leased equipment in an existing associated company is increased without change
from these vehicles at Financial Services amounted to in significant influence, goodwill is determined only for the
€868 million (2022: €109 million). additionally acquired interest; the previous investment is not
remeasured at fair value.
In the case of finance leases, the Group presents the receiv-
ables under receivables from financial services in an amount The Daimler Truck Group reviews on each reporting date
corresponding to the net investment of the lease agreements. whether there is any objective indication of impairments or
The net investment of a lease agreement is the gross invest- impairment reversals of equity-method investments. If such
ment (future lease payments and non-guaranteed residu- indications exist, the Group determines the impairment loss or
al-value) discounted at the rate upon which the lease agree- reversal to be recognized. If the carrying amount exceeds the
ment is based. recoverable amount of an investment, the carrying amount is
written down to the recoverable amount. The recoverable
amount is the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value
in use. An impairment reversal is carried out if there is objec-
tive evidence for an impairment reversal. If such an assess-
ment is made, the recoverable amount is remeasured. An
impairment reversal is recognized to the extent that the recov-
erable amount has increased subsequent to the impairment
and is limited to the amount by which an asset has been
impaired.
Gains or losses (to be eliminated) from transactions with com- kinds of electric vehicles: battery-powered, where batteries
panies accounted for using the equity method are recognized are charged with electricity; and hydrogen-powered, which are
through profit or loss with corresponding adjustments of the fueled by hydrogen, stored in tanks and converted into energy
investments’ carrying amounts. Gains or losses from the con- by fuel cells. At the end of 2022, the Daimler Truck Group
tribution of interests in subsidiaries to investments which are already had emission-free truck and bus models in series pro-
measured using the equity method are also subject to elimina- duction in Europe, America and Asia. In the coming years, not
tion adjustments to the carrying amount of the investment. only other vehicles with battery drives will follow, but also with
hydrogen-based fuel cells. Furthermore, the Group will con-
Impairment test of non-current non-financial assets tinue to expand its technology path in the future and explore
At December 31, 2022, the Daimler Truck Group assessed the potential of different battery technologies and charging
whether there was an indication that an asset might be options. Given the importance of ensuring the right infrastruc-
impaired or whether there was an indication that a previously ture is in place to support these Zero-Emission-Vehicles on the
recognized impairment loss might be reversed. If such indica- road, the Daimler Truck Group plans to with selected partners
tion exists, the Daimler Truck Group estimates the recoverable to establish a high-performance charging network infrastruc-
amount of the asset. The recoverable amount is determined for ture.
each individual asset unless the asset generates cash inflows
that are not largely independent of those from other assets or The intended shift from internal combustion engines to
groups of assets (cash-generating units or “CGU”(s)). Goodwill zero-emission vehicles as well as the changing customer
and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are demand for more sustainable products is reflected in the fact
tested at least annually for impairment; this takes place at the that in all automotive segments the focus after 2022 and the
level of the cash-generating units. If the carrying amount of an following years is on development projects related to
asset or of a cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable zero-emission vehicles. In addition to changing customer
amount, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference. behavior, these development projects are strongly influenced
by technology and infrastructure developments as well as
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to emissions regulations. Further information is provided in
E
sell and value in use. For cash-generating units, the Daimler Note1 section: “Sustainability”.
Truck Group in a first step determines the respective recover-
able amount as value in use and compares it with the respec- The impairment test of the CGUs reflects these transformation
tive carrying amount (including goodwill). The cash-generating targets within the forecasted planning periods as well as within
units of the Daimler Truck Group that were tested for impair- the calculation of the terminal value. Daimler Truck Group’s
ment are Trucks North America, Mercedes-Benz, Trucks Asia, objective that in the triad markets by 2030 the share of sales
Daimler Buses and Financial Services. The Trucks Asia seg- from commercial vehicles that are CO neutral in driving oper-
2
ment is comprised of the Trucks Asia CGU, and the at-equity ation should be up to 60% is reflected in assumptions like a
investment in Beijing Foton Daimler Automotive Co. Ltd steady increase in the share of emission-free vehicles in the
E
(“BFDA”) (not part of the Truck Asia CGU), refer to Note14. planning periods for the respective markets. Since the main
Equity-method investments. A further CGU for the start-up transformation objectives are outside of the detailed planning
TORC Robotics, Inc. (“TORC”), is presented under Reconcilia- period, assumptions about the shifting of revenues, costs and
tion in the segment reporting. corresponding investments are reflected in the terminal value
as well. These parameters are reflected in the annual impair-
Sustainability is an integral part of the Daimler Truck Group’s ment tests of our vehicle-related CGUs.
business strategy. The Daimler Truck Group believes it can
only remain successful over the long-term if it concludes its The Daimler Truck Group’s sustainable business strategy
business operations responsibly. Therefore, the Daimler Truck includes the vision of accident-free driving as a potential major
Group wants to drive transformation of the industry towards contribution to society. Accident-free driving means compre-
efficient and emission-neutral transportation by advancing hensive protection for all road users. In order to make this
innovative and sustainable transportation safely and responsi- vision reality, alongside its existing top safety features within
bly and seeing sustainable corporate governance. This includes its vehicles, the Daimler Truck Group is focusing on the further
that the Daimler Truck Group aims to offer only new vehicles in development of its driver assistance and autonomous driving
Europe, North America and Japan that are CO neutral in driv- systems in particular. Our activities to drive transformation
2
ing operation by 2039. Full Zero-Emission only works based on through autonomous trucking solutions are especially
electric powertrains, and accordingly the development of two reflected within the TORC Robotics, Inc. CGU.
Value in use is measured by discounting expected future cash The sensitivity analyses are based on assumptions about the
flows from the continuing use of the cash-generating units expected business growth and development, which are based
using a risk-adjusted interest rate. Future cash flows are deter- on the facts and circumstances prevailing at the time of the
mined on the basis of the long-term planning, which are preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well
approved by management and are valid at the date when the as on realistic assumptions about the future development of
impairment test is conducted. In general, the planning period global and industry-specific environment. Truck and bus indus-
covers five-year period. Terminal value derivations are based tries are subject to cyclical fluctuations, and as a result, react
on a steady state, which reflects start-up businesses such as to varying degrees, depending on region and sector. Therefore,
the TORC Robotics, Inc. CGU. Planning is based on expecta- a conservative approach is used for all automotive CGUs in cal-
tions regarding future market shares, the general development culating the terminal value. Whereby unfavorable changes in
of respective markets as well as the products’ profitability. The underlying conditions which may deviate from assumptions,
derivation of value in use includes risk assessments. The and that are beyond the Board of Management’s control,
assumptions for the plans are validated by considering histori- actual values may differ from estimated values.
cal trends and external data sources (including, but not limited
to, market surveys). The effects of IFRS16 is reflected consis- At December 31, 2022, the estimated recoverable amount of
tently within the calculation of the value in use, as well as in the Trucks Asia CGU exceeded its carrying amount by14.0%.
measuring the net assets. The main key assumptions were the return on sales, the cost of
capital (“WACC”) and the growth rate. In the context of the
– For the automotive business CGUs, the rounded risk-ad- sensitivity analyses, the carrying amount would equal the
justed interest rates used to discount cash flows are calcu- recoverable amount for the Trucks Asia CGU, if:
lated for each cash-generating unit at 9.0% after taxes/12.0%
before taxes (December 31, 2021: 8.0% after taxes/12.0% – the expected return on sales would be reduced to a profit-
before taxes). The main assumptions used for discounted ability level of 4.1%; or
cash flows are sales trends and return on sales, which, for
most CGUs, on average increase over the planning period. – the WACC would be increased to10.4%.
Return on sales are considered on an adjusted basis by
excluding any special or one-off effects. The planning has been based on the assumption of an
unchanged conservative growth rate of 0% for terminal value,
– For the Financial Services CGU a risk-adjusted interest rate and has therefore no impact on the sensitivity analyses.
of10.0% after taxes/14.0% before taxes is applied (Decem-
ber 31, 2021: 9.0% after taxes/13.0% before taxes). The main If value in use is lower than the carrying amount, fair value less
assumptions used are the return on equity and growth in costs to sell is additionally calculated to determine the recov-
new customers, which on average increase over the plan- erable amount.
ning period. Return on equity is considered on an adjusted
basis by excluding any special or one-off effects. An assessment for assets other than goodwill is made at each
reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previ-
– For the TORC Robotics, Inc. CGU, a separate risk-adjusted ously recognized impairment losses may no longer exist or may
rate of18.5% after taxes/25.0% before taxes is applied, rep- be reversed. If this is the case, the Daimler Truck Group
resenting the CGU as a start-up enterprise (December 31, records a partial or entire reversal of the impairment; the car-
2021:17.5% after taxes/23.5% before taxes). rying amount is thereby increased to the recoverable amount.
However, the increased carrying amount may not exceed the
The discount rate for the Financial Services CGU represents carrying amount that would have been determined (net of
the cost of equity, whereas the risk-adjusted interest rate for depreciation) if no impairment loss had been recognized in
the cash-generating units of the automotive business and prior years.
TORC Robotics, Inc. are based on the weighted-average cost of
capital (“WACC”). This is calculated based on the capital asset
pricing model (“CAPM”), taking into account current market
expectations. In calculating the risk-adjusted interest rate for
impairment-test purposes, specific peer-group information is
used for beta factors, capital-structure data and cost of debt.
Periods not covered by the forecast are taken into account by
recognizing a residual value (terminal value), which does not
include any growth rates. In addition, several sensitivity analy-
ses are conducted.
Non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups Financial assets
The Group classifies non-current assets or disposal groups as Financial assets primarily comprise receivables from financial
held for sale if the carrying amount will be recovered princi- services, trade receivables, receivables from banks, cash on
pally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing hand, derivative financial assets, marketable securities and
use. In this case, the assets or disposal groups are no longer similar investments and financial investments. The classifica-
depreciated but measured at the lower of carrying amount and tion of financial instruments is based on the business model in
fair value less costs to sell. Immediately before classification which these instruments are held and on their contractual
as held for sale, the carrying amount of the asset is deter- cash flows.
mined in accordance with the applicable individual require-
ments. If fair value less costs to sell subsequently increases, The determination of the business model is carried out at the
any impairment loss previously recognized is reversed. This portfolio level and is based on management’s intention and
reversal is restricted to the impairment loss previously recog- past transaction patterns. Assessments of the contractual
nized for the asset or disposal group concerned. The Group cash flows are made on an instrument-by-instrument basis.
generally discloses these assets or disposal groups separately
in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include
Inventories financial assets with cash flows other than those of principal
Inventories are measured at the lower of acquisition or manu- and interest on the nominal amount outstanding. Furthermore,
facturing cost and net realizable value. The net realizable value financial assets that are held in a business model other than
is the expected sales price less estimated costs of completion “hold to collect” or “hold to collect and sell” are included here.
and estimated costs to sell. The acquisition or manufacturing
costs of inventories are generally based on the specific identi- In addition, derivatives, including embedded derivatives sepa-
fication method and include costs incurred in acquiring the rated from the host contract, which are not classified as
inventories and bringing them to their present location and hedging instruments in hedge accounting, as well as financial
condition. Acquisition or manufacturing costs for large num- assets acquired for the purpose of selling in the short term
bers of inventories that are interchangeable are allocated that are classified as held for trading, are included here. Gains
under the average-cost formula. In the case of manufactured or losses on these financial assets are recognized in profit or
inventories and work in progress, manufacturing cost also loss.
includes production overheads based on normal capacity.
Financial instruments
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a finan-
cial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instru-
ment of another entity. Financial instruments in the form of
financial assets and financial liabilities are generally presented
separately. Financial instruments are recognized as soon as
the Daimler Truck Group becomes a party to the contractual
provisions of the financial instrument. In the case of purchases
or sales of financial assets through the regular market, the
Daimler Truck Group uses the transaction date as the date of
initial recognition or derecognition.
Upon initial recognition, financial instruments are measured at
fair value. For the purpose of subsequent measurement, finan-
cial instruments are allocated to one of the categories men-
tioned in IFRS 9 (financial assets measured at amortized cost,
financial assets measured at fair value through other compre-
hensive income and financial assets measured at fair value
through profit or loss). Transaction costs directly attributable
to acquisition or issuance are considered when determining
the carrying amount if the financial instruments are not mea-
sured at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets at amortized cost: After initial measurement, financial assets at fair value through
Financial assets at amortized cost are non-derivative financial other comprehensive income are measured at fair value, with
assets with contractual cash flows that consist solely of pay- unrealized gains or losses being recognized in other compre-
ments of principal and interest on the nominal amount out- hensive income. Upon disposal of debt instruments, the accu-
standing and which are held with the aim of collecting the con- mulated gains and losses recognized in other comprehensive
tractual cash flows, such as receivables from financial services, income resulting from measurement at fair value are recog-
trade receivables or cash and cash equivalents (business nized in profit or loss. Interest earned on financial assets at fair
model “hold to collect”). Cash and cash equivalents consist value through other comprehensive income is generally
primarily of cash on hand, checks and demand deposits at reported as interest income using the effective interest
banks, as well as debt instruments and certificates of deposits method. Changes in the fair value of equity instruments mea-
with a remaining term when acquired of up to three months, sured at fair value through other comprehensive income are
which are not subject to any material value fluctuations. Cash not recycled to profit or loss, but reclassified to retained earn-
and cash equivalents correspond with the classification in the ings upon disposal. Dividends are recognized in profit or loss
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. when the right to payment has been established.
After initial recognition, financial assets at amortized cost are Impairment of financial assets
subsequently carried at amortized cost using the effective At each reporting date, a loss allowance is recognized for
interest method less any loss allowances. Gains and losses are financial assets, loan commitments and financial guarantees,
recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income when the other than those to be measured at fair value through profit or
financial assets at amortized cost are impaired or derecog- loss, reflecting expected losses for these instruments.
nized. Interest effects on the application of the effective inter- Expected credit losses are allocated using three stages:
est method are also recognized in profit or loss, as well as the
effects of currency translation. Stage1: Expected credit losses within the next twelve months
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive Stage1 includes all contracts with no significant increase in
income: credit risk since initial recognition and usually includes new
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive acquisitions and contracts with fewer than 31 days past due
income are non-derivative financial assets with contractual date. The portion of the lifetime expected credit losses result-
cash flows that consist solely of payments of principal and ing from default events possible within the next12 months is
interest on the nominal amount outstanding and which are recognized.
held to collect the contractual cash flows as well as to sell the
financial assets, e.g. to achieve a defined liquidity target (busi- Stage 2: Expected credit losses over the lifetime – not credit
ness model “hold to collect and sell”). This category also impaired
includes equity instruments not held for trading for which the
option to present changes in the fair value of the instrument If a financial asset has a significant increase in credit risk since
within other comprehensive income has been applied. initial recognition but is not yet credit impaired, it is moved to
stage 2 and measured at lifetime expected credit loss, which is
defined as the expected credit loss that results from all possi-
ble default events over the expected life of a financial instru-
ment.
Stage 3: Expected credit losses over the lifetime – credit
impaired
If a financial asset is defined as credit impaired or in default, it
is transferred to stage 3 and measured at lifetime expected
credit loss. Objective evidence for a credit-impaired financial
asset includes 91 days past due date and other information
about significant financial difficulties of the borrower.
The determination of whether a financial asset has experienced The estimation of these risk parameters incorporates all avail-
a significant increase in credit risk is based on an assessment able relevant information, not only historical and current loss
of the probability of default, which is made at least quarterly, data, but also reasonable and supportable forward-looking
incorporating external credit rating information as well as information reflected by the future expectation factors. This
internal information on the credit quality of the financial asset. information includes macroeconomic factors (e.g. gross
For debt instruments that are not receivables from financial domestic product growth, unemployment rate, cost perfor-
services, a significant increase in credit risk is assessed, mance index) and forecasts of future economic conditions. For
mainly based on past-due information or the probability of receivables from financial services, these forecasts are per-
default. formed using a scenario analysis (basic scenario, optimistic
scenario and pessimistic scenario). The impairment amount for
A financial asset is migrated to stage 2 if the asset’s credit risk trade receivables is predominantly determined on a collective
has increased significantly compared to its credit risk at initial basis.
recognition. The credit risk is assessed based on the probabil-
ity of default. For trade receivables, the simplified approach is A financial instrument is written off when there is no reason-
applied whereby all trade receivables are allocated to stage 2 able expectation of recovery, for example, at the end of insol-
initially. Hence, no determination of significant increases in vency proceedings or after a court determines it is uncollect-
credit risk is necessary. ible.
The Daimler Truck Group applies the low credit risk exception Significant modification of financial assets (e.g. with a change
to the stage allocation to quoted debt instruments with invest- in the present value of the contractual cash flows of10%) also
ment-grade ratings. These debt instruments are always allo- leads to derecognition of the financial assets with simultane-
cated to stage1. ous recognition of new financial assets. This is estimated to be
rare and immaterial for receivables from financial services. If
In stages1 and 2, the effective interest revenue is calculated the terms of a contract are renegotiated or modified and this
based on gross carrying amounts. If a financial asset becomes does not result in derecognition of the contract, then the gross
credit impaired in stage 3, the effective interest revenue is cal- carrying amount of the contract has to be recalculated and a
culated based on its net carrying amount (gross carrying modification gain or loss has to be recognized in profit or loss.
amount adjusted for any loss allowance).
Offsetting of financial instruments
Measurement of expected credit losses. Expected credit losses Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net
are measured in a way that reflects: amount is presented in the Consolidated Statement of Finan-
cial Position provided that an enforceable right currently exists
a) t he unbiased and probability-weighted amount; to offset the amounts involved, and there is an intention either
to carry out the offsetting on a net basis or to settle a liability
b) t he time value of money and when the related asset is sold.
c) reasonable and supportable information (if available without
undue cost or effort) at the reporting date about past events,
current conditions and forecasts of future economic condi-
tions.
Expected credit losses are measured as the probability-
weighted present value of all cash shortfalls over the expected
life of each financial asset. For receivables from financial ser-
vices, expected credit losses are mainly calculated with a
statistical model using three major risk parameters: probability
of default, loss given default and exposure at default.
Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
Financial liabilities: The Group uses derivative financial instruments exclusively for
Financial liabilities primarily include trade payables, liabilities hedging financial risks that arise from its operating or financ-
to banks, derivative financial liabilities and other liabilities such ing activities or liquidity management. These are mainly cur-
as non-controlling interests in consolidated commercial rency risks and interest rate risks.
real-estate partnerships. These interests are classified as put-
table instruments since the non-controlling partner has the Embedded derivatives are principally separated from the host
right to terminate and return their shareholding in exchange for contract and recognized separately. However, embedded deriv-
a settlement. Puttable instruments in commercial real-estate atives are not separated from the host contract if that host
partnerships are accounted for as a financial liability in the contract is a financial asset, if the Daimler Truck Group
Consolidated Financial Statement. chooses to measure a hybrid contract at fair value through
profit or loss, or if the embedded derivative is closely related
The Group participates in reverse-factoring arrangements to the host contract.
under which suppliers may elect to receive early payment from
financial institutions by factoring their receivables from the Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value
Group. The Daimler Truck Group qualifies the financial liabili- upon initial recognition and at each subsequent reporting date.
ties eligible to the reverse factoring arrangements as trade The fair value of listed derivatives is equal to their positive or
payables as the obligations to pay for goods or services are negative market value. If a market value is not available, fair
invoiced by a supplier. The Group considers trade payables as value is calculated using standard financial valuation models
part of the working capital. In general trade payables have an such as discounted cash flow or option-pricing models. Deriva-
original maturity of less than12 months. Related payments are tives are presented as assets if their fair value is positive and
included within operating cash flows because they remain as liabilities if their fair value is negative.
operational in nature.
If the requirements for hedge accounting set out in IFRS 9 are
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost: met, the Daimler Truck Group designates and documents the
After initial recognition, financial liabilities are subsequently hedge relationship from the date a derivative contract is
measured at amortized cost using the effective interest entered into as a fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge. In a fair
method. The measurement of the puttable instruments in com- value hedge, the changes in the fair value of a recognized asset
mercial real-estate partnerships equals the present value of or liability or an unrecognized firm commitment are hedged. In
the redemption amount in the case of termination of the share- a cash flow hedge, the variability of cash flows to be received
holding. or paid from expected transactions related to a recognized
asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction is
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: hedged. The documentation of the hedging relationship
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include includes the objectives and strategy of risk management, the
financial liabilities held for trading. Derivatives (including type of hedging relationship, the nature of the risk being
embedded derivatives separated from the host contract) which hedged, the identification of the eligible hedging instrument
are not used as hedging instruments in hedge accounting are and the eligible hedged item, as well as an assessment of the
classified as held for trading. Gains or losses on liabilities held effectiveness requirements comprising the risk-mitigating eco-
for trading are recognized in profit or loss. nomic relationship, the absence of deteriorating effects from
credit risk and the appropriate hedge ratio. Hedging transac-
tions are regularly assessed to determine whether the effec-
tiveness requirements are met while they are designated.
Changes in the fair value of non-designated derivatives are rec-
ognized in profit or loss. For fair value hedges, changes in the
fair value of the hedged item and the derivative are recognized
in profit or loss. For cash flow hedges, fair value changes in the
effective portion of the hedging instrument are recognized
after tax in other comprehensive income.
Under IFRS 9, for cash flow hedges in procurement transac- Pensions and similar obligations
tions expected with a high degree of probability, designation The measurement of defined benefit plans for pensions and
can be made for separable risk components of these non-fi- other post-employment benefit obligations (medical care) in
nancial hedged items. accordance with IAS19 Employee Benefits is based on the pro-
jected unit credit method. Plan assets invested to cover
Under IFRS 9, with cash flow hedges, amounts recognized in defined benefit pension obligations and other post-employ-
other comprehensive income as effective hedging gains or ment benefit obligations (medical care) are measured at fair
losses from hedging instruments are removed from the value and offset against the corresponding obligations. If the
reserves for derivative financial instruments and directly benefit entitlements are not covered by assets, the amount
included in the initial cost or carrying amount of the hedged included in provisions for pensions and similar obligations cor-
item at initial recognition if the hedged item, e.g. forecast responds to the amount of the defined benefit obligation (DBO)
transaction, results in the recognition of a non-financial asset pension commitments. If the benefit entitlements are covered
or non-financial liability. by plan assets, a net amount is recognized from the fair value
of the plan assets and the DBO is adjusted in relation to any
For other cash flow hedges, the accumulated hedging gains or effects of the asset ceiling.
losses from hedging instruments are reclassified from the
reserves for derivative financial instruments to the Consoli- The balance of defined benefit plans for pensions and other
dated Statement of Income when the hedged item affects post-employment benefit obligations and plan assets (net pen-
profit or loss. The ineffective portions of fair value changes are sion obligation or net pension assets) accrues interest at the
recognized directly in profit or loss. For derivative instruments discount rate used as a basis for the measurement of the
designated in a hedge relationship, certain components can be gross pension obligation. The resulting net interest expense or
excluded from designation and the changes in these compo- income is recognized in profit or loss under interest expense or
nents’ fair values are then deferred in other comprehensive interest income in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The
income under IFRS 9. This may apply for example to the time other expenses resulting from pension obligations and other
value of options, the forward element of a forward contract or post-employment benefit obligations (medical care), which
cross-currency basis spreads. mainly result from entitlements acquired during the year under
review, are taken into consideration in the functional costs in
Hedge relationships are to be discontinued prospectively if a the Consolidated Statement of Income. Differences between
particular hedge relationship ceases to meet the qualifying cri- the assumptions made and actual developments as well as
teria for hedge accounting under IFRS 9. Instances that require changes in actuarial assumptions for the measurement of
discontinuation of hedge accounting are, among others, defined benefit plans and similar obligations result in actuarial
changes to the designated hedged item, loss of the economic gains and losses, which have a direct impact on the Consoli-
relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instru- dated Statement of Financial Position and are recognized in
ment, disposal or termination of the hedging instrument, or a Other Comprehensive Income.
revision of the documented risk management objective of a
particular hedge relationship. Accumulated hedging gains and The discount factors used to calculate the present values of
losses from cash flow hedges are retained and are reclassified defined benefit pension obligations are to be determined –
from equity as described at maturity if the hedged future cash with maturities and currencies matching the pension payments
flows are still expected to occur. Otherwise, accumulated – by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting
hedging gains and losses are immediately reclassified to profit period on high-quality corporate bonds in the respective mar-
or loss. kets. For very long maturities, there are no high-quality corpo-
rate bonds available as a benchmark. The respective discount
If derivative financial instruments do not or no longer qualify factors are estimated by extrapolating current market rates
for hedge accounting because the qualifying criteria for hedge along the yield curve.
accounting are not or are no longer met, the derivative finan-
cial instruments are classified as held for trading and are mea- Gains or losses on the curtailment or settlement of a defined
sured at fair value through profit or loss. benefit plan are recognized in profit or loss when the curtail-
ment or settlement occurs.
Provisions for other risks Refund liabilities occur at the Daimler Truck Group especially
A provision is recognized when a liability to third-parties has in the following circumstances:
been incurred, an outflow of resources is probable and the
amount of the obligation can be reasonably estimated. The – obligations from sales transactions (especially performance
amount recognized as a provision represents the best estimate bonuses, discounts and other price concessions) in the
of the obligation at the reporting date. Provisions with an origi- scope of IFRS15, and
nal maturity of more than one year are discounted to the pres-
ent value of the expenditures expected to settle the obligation – sales with the right of return and residual-value guarantees.
at the end of the reporting period. If the criteria of the regula-
tions on recognition and measurement of provisions are not Share-based payment
fulfilled and the possibility of a cash outflow upon settlement Share-based payment comprises cash-settled liability awards.
is not unlikely, the item is to be presented as a contingent lia-
bility, insofar as it is adequately measurable. The amount dis- Liability awards are measured at fair value at each balance
closed as a contingent liability represents the best estimate of sheet date until settlement and are classified as provisions
the possible obligation at the reporting date. Provisions and under consideration of vesting conditions. The profit or loss of
contingent liabilities are regularly reviewed and adjusted as the period equals the addition to and/or the reversal of the
further information becomes available or circumstances provision during the reporting period and the dividend equiva-
change. lent paid during the period and is included in functional costs.
A provision for expected warranty costs is recognized when a Presentation in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
product is sold or when a new warranty program is initiated. The Daimler Truck Group uses the indirect method for the
Estimates for accrued warranty costs are primarily based on determination of cash flows from operating activities. Interest
historical experience. paid as well as interest and dividends received are classified
as cash flows from operating activities. The cash flows from
Restructuring provisions are set up in connection with pro- short-term marketable debt securities with high turnover rates
grams that materially change the scope of business performed and significant amounts are offset and presented within cash
by a segment or business unit or the manner in which business flows from investing activities.
is conducted. In most cases, restructuring expenses include
termination benefits and compensation payments due to the Prior to the spin-off, financing transactions of the Daimler
termination of agreements with suppliers and dealers. Restruc- Truck Group with the Mercedes-Benz Group (“Transactions
turing provisions are recognized when the Group has a detailed with the Mercedes-Benz Group”) were presented in the cash
formal plan that has either commenced implementation or flows from financing activities. Transactions with the
been announced. Mercedes-Benz Group also include cash inflows and outflows
in connection with profit-or-loss transfer agreements between
Contract and refund liabilities the Daimler Truck Group and the Mercedes-Benz Group, pur-
Contract liabilities: chase price for the acquisition of businesses under common
A contract liability is an entity’s obligation to transfer goods or control, which is already accounted for retrospectively, divi-
services to a customer for which the entity has received con- dends paid to Mercedes-Benz Group companies, and other
sideration (or the amount is due) from the customer. financing transactions.
Contract liabilities occur at the Daimler Truck Group especially
from prepaid service and maintenance contracts and extended
warranties.
Refund liabilities:
A refund liability occurs if the Daimler Truck Group receives
consideration from a customer and expects to refund some or
all of that consideration to the customer. A refund liability is
measured at the amount of consideration received for which
the Daimler Truck Group does not expect to be entitled and is
thus not included in the transaction price.
2. Accounting estimates and
Recoverable amount of equipment on operating leases
management judgments The Daimler Truck Group regularly reviews the factors deter-
mining the values of its leased vehicles. In particular, it is nec-
essary to estimate the residual-values of vehicles at the end of
In the Consolidated Financial Statements, to a certain degree, their leases, which constitute a substantial part of the
estimates and management judgments have to be made which expected future cash flows from leased assets. In this context,
can affect the amounts and reporting of assets and liabilities, assumptions are made regarding major influencing factors,
the reporting of contingent assets and liabilities on the balance such as the expected number of returned vehicles, the latest
sheet date, and the amounts of income and expense reported remarketing results and future vehicle model changes. Those
for the period. The major items affected by such estimates and assumptions are determined either by qualified estimates or by
management judgments are described as follows. Actual publications provided by expert third-parties; qualified esti-
amounts may differ from the estimates. Changes in the esti- mates are based, as far as publicly available, on external data
mates and management judgments can have a material impact with consideration of internally available additional information
on the Consolidated Financial Statements. such as historical experience of price developments and
recent sale prices. The residual-values thus determined serve
Acquired receivables from Financial Services entities from as a basis for depreciation; changes in residual-values lead
Phase 2 transactions either to prospective adjustments of the depreciation or, in the
In connection with the Phase 2 transactions, truck and bus- case of a significant decline in expected residual-values, to an
related Financial Services companies and divisions were impairment. If depreciation is prospectively adjusted, changes
acquired after the spin-off from the Mercedes-Benz Group in in estimates of residual-values do not have a direct effect but
2022 by the Daimler Truck Group. The assets acquired with the are equally distributed over the remaining periods of the lease
business combinations mainly consist of receivables from contracts.
financial services. Acquired receivables from financial services
are recognized at fair value at the time of acquisition in accor- Collectability of receivables from financial services
dance with IFRS 3 – Business combinations. The main assump- The Daimler Truck Group regularly estimates the risk of default
tions regarding the acquired receivables from financial ser- on receivables from financial services. Many factors are taken
vices relate to the weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”) into consideration in this context, including historical loss
E
and the expected credit losses. Refer to Note 4. Business experience, the size and composition of certain portfolios, cur-
combinations. rent economic events and conditions and the estimated fair
values and adequacy of collaterals. In addition to historical and
Recoverable amounts of cash-generating units and equi- current information on losses, appropriate and reliable for-
ty-method investments ward-looking information on factors is also included. This infor-
To determine the recoverable amounts of cash-generating mation includes macroeconomic factors (e.g. GDP growth,
units, estimates have to be used as part of impairment tests unemployment rate, cost-performance index) and forecasts of
for non-financial assets. Assumptions have to be made in par- future economic conditions. For receivables from financial ser-
ticular with regard to future cash inflows and outflows for the vices, these forecasts are determined using a scenario analy-
planning period and the following periods. The estimates sis (baseline scenario, optimistic and pessimistic scenario).
include assumptions regarding future market shares and the Further external information, which cannot be depicted in the
growth of the respective markets, as well as regarding the scenarios, is – as far as necessary – included in the assess-
products’ profitability. ment through subsequent adjustments. Changes to the estima-
tion and assessment of these factors influence the allowance
When objective evidence of impairment or impairment reversal for credit losses with a resulting impact on the Group’s net
E
is present, estimates and assessments also have to be made profit. Refer to Note15. Receivables from financial ser-
E
to determine the recoverable amount of an equity-method vices and Note 34. Management of financial risks for fur-
investment. The determination of the recoverable amount is ther information.
based on assumptions regarding future business develop-
ments for the determination of the expected future cash flows
E
of that financial investment. Refer to Note14. Equi-
ty-method investments, for the presentation of carrying
amounts of equity-method investments.
Product warranties Pensions and similar obligations
The recognition and measurement of provisions for product The calculation of provisions for pensions and similar obliga-
warranties is generally connected with estimates. tions and the related pension cost are based on various actuar-
ial valuations. The calculations are subject to various assump-
The Group provides various types of product warranties tions on matters such as current actuarially developed
depending on the type of product and market conditions. Pro- probabilities (e.g. discount factors and cost-of-living increases),
visions for product warranties are generally recognized when future fluctuations with regard to age and period of service,
vehicles are sold or when new warranty programs are initiated. and experience with the probability of occurrence of pension
Based on historical warranty-claim experience, assumptions payments, annuities or lump sums. As a result of changed mar-
have to be made on the type and extent of future warranty ket or economic conditions, the probabilities on which the
claims and customer goodwill, as well as on possible recall influencing factors are based may differ from current develop-
campaigns. These assessments are based on experience of ments. The financial effects of deviations of the main factors
the frequency and extent of vehicle faults and defects in the are calculated with the use of sensitivity analyses. Refer to
E
past. In addition, the estimates also include assumptions on Note 23. Pensions and similar obligations for further infor-
the amounts of potential repair costs per vehicle and the mation.
effects of possible time or mileage limits. The provisions are
regularly adjusted to reflect new information. Further informa- Income taxes
E
tion on provisions for other risks is provided in Note 24. The calculation of income taxes is based on the legislation and
Provisions for other risks. regulations applicable in the various countries. Due to their
complexity, tax items presented in the Consolidated Financial
Liability and litigation risks and regulatory proceedings Statements are possibly subject to different interpretations by
Various legal proceedings, claims and governmental investiga- taxpayers on the one hand and local tax authorities on the
tions are pending against the Daimler Truck Group on a wide other. Different interpretations can occur especially in connec-
range of topics. If the outcome of such legal proceedings is tion with the recognition and measurement of balance sheet
detrimental to the Daimler Truck Group, the Group may be items as well as in connection with the assessment of
required to pay substantial compensatory and punitive dam- expenses and income. For the calculation of deferred taxes,
ages, to undertake service actions or recall campaigns, to pay assumptions have to be made regarding future taxable income
fines, or to carry out other costly actions. Litigation and gov- and the time of realization of the deferred tax benefits. In this
ernmental investigations often involve complex legal issues context, the Daimler Truck Group takes into consideration,
and are connected with a high degree of uncertainty. Accord- among other things, the projected earnings from subsidiaries,
ingly, the assessment of whether an obligation exists on the the effects on earnings of the reversal of taxable temporary
balance sheet date as a result of an event in the past, and differences, and realizable tax strategies. As future business
whether a future cash outflow is likely and the obligation can developments are uncertain and are sometimes beyond the
be reliably estimated, largely depends on estimations by the Daimler Truck Group’s control, the assumptions to be made in
management. The Daimler Truck Group regularly evaluates the connection with accounting for deferred tax assets are con-
current stage of legal proceedings, also with the involvement nected with a substantial degree of uncertainty.
of external legal counsel. It is therefore possible that the
amounts of provisions for pending or potential litigation will On each balance sheet date, the Daimler Truck Group carries
have to be adjusted due to future developments. Changes in out impairment tests on deferred tax assets on the basis of the
estimates and premises can have a material effect on the planned taxable income in future financial years. Deferred tax
Group’s future profitability. It is also possible that provisions assets are only recognized if it is probable that future taxable
recognized for some legal proceedings may turn out to be income will be available to realize tax benefits.
insufficient once such proceedings have ended. The Daimler
Truck Group may also become liable for payments in legal pro-
ceedings for which no provisions were established. Although
the final resolution of any such proceedings could have a mate-
rial effect on the Daimler Truck Group’s operating results and
cash flows for a particular reporting period, management
believes that it should not materially affect the Group’s finan-
cial position. Further information on liability and litigation
E
risks and regulatory proceedings is provided in Note 31.
Legal proceedings.
3. Consolidated Group
Assets and liabilities held for sale
At December 31, 2022 there are no significant assets and
Composition of the Group liabilities held for sale.
Table  D.08 shows the composition of the Group. A list of the
companies included in the Consolidated Financial Statements
and of investments accounted for at-equity of the Daimler D.08
Truck Group pursuant to Section 313 of the German Commer- Composition of the Group
cial Code (“HGB”) is provided in the statement of investments,
E At December 31,
refer to Note 42. Additional information.
2022 2021
The aggregate totals in the Statement of Financial Position of
Consolidated subsidiaries 125 114
the subsidiaries, associated companies, joint ventures and
Germany 13 14
joint operations accounted for at amortized cost whose busi-
International 112 100
ness is non-active or of low volume and which are not material
Unconsolidated subsidiaries 22 20
for the Daimler Truck Group and the fair presentation of its
Germany 8 5
profitability, liquidity and capital resources, and financial posi-
International 14 15
tion would amount to approximately1% of the Daimler Truck
Joint operations accounted for using the equity
Group’s total assets; the aggregate revenue and the aggregate
method 1 1
net profit would amount to approximately1% of the Daimler
Germany - -
Truck Group’s revenue and net profit.
International 1 1
Joint ventures accounted for using the equity
In connection with the Phase 2 transactions during 2022, the method 8 7
Daimler Truck Group acquired further companies from the Germany 1 1
Mercedes-Benz Group. International 7 6
Associated companies accounted for
Structured entities using the equity method 6 6
The structured entities of the Daimler Truck Group are rental Germany 1 1
companies and asset-backed-securities (ABS) companies. The International 5 5
purpose of the rental companies is primarily the acquisition, Joint operations, joint ventures, associated
companies and material other investments
renting-out and management of assets. The ABS companies
accounted for at (amortized) cost 11 11
are primarily used for the Daimler Truck Group’s refinancing.
Germany 5 5
The assets transferred to structured entities usually result
International 6 6
from the Daimler Truck Group’s leasing and sales financing
Significant other investments accounted for at fair
business. Those entities refinance the purchase price by issu- value 4 3
ing securities. Germany 2 1
International 2 2
At the reporting date, the Daimler Truck Group has business Total 177 162
relationships with three controlled structured entities. In addi-
tion, the Daimler Truck Group has relationships with six
non-controlled structured entities.
4. Business combinations
Additionally, on May 6, 2022, the Daimler Truck Group
acquired the truck and bus-related Financial Services business
Acquisition of truck and bus-related Financial Services of Mercedes-Benz Renting, S.A, headquartered in Madrid,
companies and business units from Mercedes-Benz Group Spain (“ESP-RT”) in an asset deal. Furthermore, the Daimler
During 2022 and after the spin-off, in connection with the Truck Group acquired the truck and bus-related Financial Ser-
Phase 2 transactions, the Daimler Truck Group acquired the vices division of Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Ltd.
following truck and bus related Financial Services companies with registered offices in the United Kingdom, Milton Keynes
as well as Financial Services business units (together hereinaf- (“UK”) on August1, 2022 as part of another asset deal. These
ter also referred to as the “acquired Financial Services busi- acquisitions also constitute business combinations in accor-
ness”) from Mercedes-Benz Group. dance with IFRS 3 – Business Combinations.
On April1, 2022, the Daimler Truck Group acquired100% of the With the above transactions, the Daimler Truck Group is
shares in the Financial Services companies Mercedes-Benz strengthening its focus on truck and bus-related leasing and
Broker Argentina S.A. and Mercedes-Benz Servicios S.A. Financial Services business in Europe and South America.
including the shares in its subsidiaries Mercedes-Benz Com-
pañía Financiera Argentina S.A. with registered office in Argen- The acquired Financial Services business was fully integrated
tina, Buenos Aires, Daimler Truck Financial Services Belgium into the existing Financial Services segment.
S.A./N.V. with registered office in Belgium, Brussels (“BEL”),
Mercedes-Benz Trucks Financial Services Italia S.p.A. with reg- With the acquisition of Financial Services companies, there
istered office in Italy, Rome (“ITA”) and Daimler Truck Financial were already existing contractual relationships between the
Services Nederland B.V. with registered office in the Nether- Daimler Truck Group as the acquirer and the acquired truck
lands, Utrecht (“NL”). and bus-related Financial Services business (“pre-existing rela-
tionships”) in the context of the transfer of trucks/buses to
On September 30, 2022, the Daimler Truck Group acquired the Financial Services companies for renting to end customers
100% of the shares of Mercedes-Benz Kamyon Finansman A.S. as well as from the assumption of opportunities and risks from
including including the shares in its subsidiary Daimler Sigorta residual values. These contractual relationships were termi-
Aracilik Hizmetleri A.S. with registered office in Turkey, Istan- nated with the acquisition of the Financial Services companies.
bul. The fair value of the pre-existing relationships at the time of
acquisition were €171 million. The fair value of the pre-existing
On November 7, 2022, the Daimler Truck Group acquired100% relationships was measured using the discounted cash flow
of the shares in Daimler Truck Financial Services Espana E.F.C., method. This resulted in a gain of €44 million in 2022, which
S.A.U. with registered office in Spain, Madrid (“ESP-FS”). was recognized as other operating income in the Consolidated
Statement of Income and allocated in full to the Financial Ser-
The share deal transactions, described above, constitute busi- vices segment.
ness combinations (together hereinafter also referred to as
“share deal transactions”) in accordance with IFRS 3 – Busi- As part of the 2021 demerger agreement, valuation mecha-
ness Combinations. nisms were defined for determining the purchase prices. These
include, among other aspects, the preparation of external eval-
The information on the business combinations in Argentina of uation reports that are not yet final as of the reporting date for
Mercedes-Benz Servicios S.A., including the shares in its sub- acquisition of NL, ITA, UK, TR, ESP-RT and ESP-FS. The finaliza-
sidiary Mercedes-Benz Compañía Financiera Argentina S.A., as tion of the external evaluations are still outstanding as of
well as Mercedes-Benz Broker Argentina S.A. is presented December 31, 2022 and is planned for the period up to one
below on an aggregated basis (“ARG”). Similarly, the business year after the corresponding acquisition dates. No significant
combinations in Turkey with regard to Mercedes-Benz Kamyon purchase price adjustments are expected. The purchase price
Finansman A.S., including the shares in its subsidiary Daimler allocation and measurement of the assets and liabilities
Sigorta Aracilik Hizmetleri A.S. is also presented on an aggre- acquired for BEL and ARG were concluded by December 31,
gate basis (“TR”). 2022. The finalization of the purchase price allocation has not
resulted in any significant changes.
Table  D.09 below shows the fair values of the consideration
transferred in respect of the acquired Financial Services busi-
ness at the respective acquisition dates. As described above,
some of these are still provisional.
D.09
Consideration transferred in business combinations
ARG BEL ITA NL ESP-RT UK TR ESP-FS Total
In millions of euros
Purchase prices of share deal trans-
actions and asset deal transactions1 7 2 18 46 194 695 37 7 1,006
Repayment of financing liabilities to the
Mercedes-Benz Group - 80 601 396 - - - 193 1,271
Less cash allocated for the settlement
of pre-existing relationships - -12 -5 -5 -134 -15 - - -171
Total consideration transferred
( purchase price, partly preliminary) 7 70 614 437 60 680 37 200 2,106
Paid by Dec. 31, 2022 7 70 614 437 60 680 23 211 2,103
Cash acquired -10 - -2 -6 - - -75 -6 -99
Net consideration transfered by Dec.
31 2022 -3 70 612 431 60 680 -52 205 2,004
1 The purchase prices for TR and ESP-FS are provisional, as the final purchase price is derived from the evaluation of a neutral expert. The expert opinion
must be drawn up within 12 months after acquisition date.
As part of the purchase price allocation, the assets purchased
and liabilities acquired were measured at fair value using the
discounted cash flow method. In addition to the recognition of
intangible assets relating to customer relationships and soft-
ware, this led in particular to the recognition of the purchased
leasing portfolio (receivables from Financial Services and
leased assets) and of goodwill. Where the acquisition price is
below the fair value, a gain in bargain purchase has been rec-
ognized directly in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
The main assumptions made in the context of the purchase
price allocation relate to the development of future revenue
and margins of the acquired truck and bus-related Financial
Services business, expected margins from the credit and leas-
ing portfolios, and expectations on future customer behavior
and cost of capital.
Table  D.10 presents the partly preliminary allocation of
the consideration transferred to the assets purchased and
liabilities acquired measured at fair value at the respective
a cquisition dates.
D.10
Assets purchased and liabilities acquired at fair value (partly preliminary1)
ARG BEL ITA NL ESP-RT UK TR ESP-FS Total
In millions of euros
Intangible assets 1 - - 3 - 5 - - 9
Property, plant and equipment - - - - - - 1 - 1
Equipment on operating leases - 8 16 98 60 220 - - 402
Receivables from financial services 94 69 641 337 - 451 540 160 2,291
Trade receivables 1 6 - 13 - - 2 - 23
Cash and cash equivalents 10 - 2 6 - - 75 6 99
Other financial assets 1 - - - 1 - 14 40 56
Other assets 7 2 7 - 1 - 1 19 38
Total assets 114 85 666 457 62 676 633 225 2,918
Provisions - - - - - - 2 2 4
Financing liabilities 68 - - - - - 527 - 595
Trade payables - 5 - 4 - - - 4 13
Other financial liabilities 10 1 - 8 2 - 34 2 57
Other liabilities 4 1 1 9 2 - 8 3 28
Total liabilities 82 7 1 21 4 - 571 11 697
Purchased net assets 32 77 665 435 57 676 63 214 2,220
Total consideration transferred
(p urchase price) 7 70 614 437 60 680 37 200 2,106
Goodwill (+) or gain on bargain
purchase (-) -25 -7 -51 2 3 4 -26 -14 -114
1 The evaluation reports for the acquisition of NL, ITA, UK, TR, ESP-RT and ESP-FS are provisional, as the final evaluation reports are not yet available.
Table  D.11 represents the contractually agreed gross
amounts of receivables from Financial Services acquired and
trade receivables, at the respective acquisition dates, as well
as the best estimate of the contractual cash flows expected to
be irrecoverable:
D.11
Gross contractual amounts and best estimate of cash flows expected to be irrecoverable
ARG BEL ITA NL ESP-RT UK TR ESP-FS Total
In millions of euros
Contractual gross amounts 97 76 667 354 - 455 554 186 2,390
Related cash flows expected to be
uncollectible 1 1 26 4 - 4 13 26 76
The business combinations of BEL, ITA, ARG, TR und ESP-FS
resulted in an acquisition at a price below fair value in the
amount of €123 million and were recognized as a gain on bar-
gain purchase within other operating income in the Consoli-
dated Statement of Income in 2022. The acquisition at a price
below fair value resulted primarily from the expected lower
profitability of the companies in connection with the mar-
ket-standard equity position.
Table  D.12 shows the amount of revenue and profit/loss
after tax generated by the acquired Financial Services busi-
ness from the acquisition date to December 31, 2022, as rec-
ognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income in 2022.
D.12
Revenues and profit/loss after tax generated between acquisition date and Dec. 31, 2022
ARG BEL ITA NL ESP-RT UK TR ESP-FS Total
In millions of euros
Revenues 26 13 29 47 51 50 34 4 254
Profit/loss after tax -8 -1 -6 - -5 -10 -10 2 -38
The pro forma revenue and pro forma consolidated profit/loss
after tax that would have been recognized in the Consolidated
Statement of Income in 2022 if the business combinations had
already taken place on January1, 2022 would amount to
€469 million and a loss of €33 million, respectively. In deter-
mining these amounts, management assumed that the fair
value adjustments made at the acquisition date would also
have been effective in the event of an acquisition on January1,
2022.
Table  D.13 shows the respective pro forma components of
the acquired Financial Services business from January1, 2022
until the acquisition date in the above-mentioned pro forma
revenues and pro forma consolidated profit/loss after tax:
D.13
Pro forma components of pro forma revenues and pro forma net profit after tax from January 1, 2022 until acquisition date
ARG BEL ITA NL ESP-RT UK TR ESP-FS Total
In millions of euros
Pro forma revenues (pro rata) 8 4 9 23 22 72 69 7 215
Pro forma consolidated profit/loss
after tax (pro rata) 2 - - 1 - -3 13 -9 5
5. Revenue
Revenue according to IFRS15 includes revenue that was previ-
ously included in contract liabilities at December 31, 2021 that
Revenue disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Income amounted to €1,043 million in 2022 (revenue in 2021 that was
includes revenue from contracts with customers and other previously included in contract liabilities at January1, 2021:
revenue not in the scope of IFRS15. €814 million) and revenue from performance obligations of
€99 million (2021: €132 million), which were met or partially
Revenue from contracts with customers (revenue according to met in previous periods.
IFRS15) is disaggregated by the two categories – type of prod-
ucts and services and geographical regions – and presented in In the second quarter of 2022, revenue in accordance with
table  D.14. The category type of products and services IFRS 15 included revenue from a license agreement with Bei-
corresponds to the reportable segments as presented in jing Foton Daimler Automotive Co., Ltd., an equity-method
E
Note 35. Segment reporting. financial investment of the Daimler Truck Group (refer to
E
Note 38. Related party disclosures), presented within the
Other revenue primarily comprises revenue from the rental and Mercedes-Benz segment.
leasing business of €1,008 million (2021: €994 million), inter-
est from Financial Services of €1,320 million (2021: €888 mil-
lion) and effects from currency hedging. Interest from the
financial services business includes financial income on the
net investment in leases of €187 million (2021: €142 million).
D.14
Revenue
Trucks
North Mercedes- Trucks Daimler Financial Ser- Total Daimler Truck
America Benz Asia Buses vices segments Reconciliation Group
In millions of euros
2022
Revenue according to
IFRS 15 21,985 19,650 6,466 3,494 176 51,771 -3,139 48,632
Europe 207 12,213 381 2,456 42 15,299 -864 14,435
North America 21,408 1,182 130 256 46 23,022 -1,285 21,737
Asia 8 1,905 5,166 62 17 7,158 -689 6,469
Latin America1 175 3,442 222 643 22 4,504 -253 4,251
Other markets 187 908 567 77 49 1,788 -48 1,740
Other revenue 54 563 33 195 1,583 2,428 -115 2,313
Total revenue 22,039 20,213 6,499 3,689 1,759 54,199 -3,254 50,945
Trucks
North Mercedes- Trucks Daimler Financial Ser- Total Daimler Truck
America Benz Asia Buses vices segments Reconciliation Group
In millions of euros
2021
Revenue according to
IFRS 15 15,772 15,513 5,949 2,991 101 40,326 -2,395 37,931
Europe 88 10,248 284 2,328 - 12,948 -675 12,273
North America 15,326 1,104 89 150 41 16,710 -1,139 15,571
Asia 13 1,068 4,925 51 9 6,066 -455 5,611
Latin America1 150 2,210 185 384 11 2,940 -120 2,820
Other markets 195 883 466 78 40 1,662 -6 1,656
Other revenue 10 600 20 220 1,021 1,871 -38 1,833
Total revenue 15,782 16,113 5,969 3,211 1,122 42,197 -2,433 39,764
1 Excluding Mexico.
At December 31, 2022, it was anticipated that future revenue Selling expenses
of €3,373 million (2021: €2,991 million) related to performance In 2022, selling expenses amounted to €2,928 million (2021:
obligations that are unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) at the €2,722 million). Selling expenses consist of direct selling costs
end of the reporting period will be realized within the next as well as selling overhead expenses, such as personnel
three years. This revenue is mainly derived from long-term ser- expenses, material costs and other selling costs.
vice and maintenance contracts and extended warranties. It
does not include performance obligations from customer con- General administrative expenses
tracts that have initial expected durations of one year or less. In 2022, general administrative expenses amounted to
Any long-term performance obligations considered of minor €1,957 million (2021: €1,635 million). They consist of expenses
importance to the overall contract value of a bundled contract which are not attributable to production, sales or research and
are not considered in assessing the initial duration of the bun- development functions, such as personnel expenses, deprecia-
dled contract. tion and amortization of fixed and intangible assets, and other
administrative costs.
Revenue by segment is shown in table  D.90 and by region in
E
table  D.92 in Note 35. Segment reporting. Research and non-capitalized development costs
In 2022, research and non-capitalized development costs were
€1,618 million (2021: €1,398 million) and primarily comprise
6. Functional costs
personnel expenses and material costs.
Cost of sales Effects on functional costs due to Russia-Ukraine war
Items included in cost of sales are shown in table  D.15. Russia has been at war with Ukraine since the end of Febru-
ary 2022. On February 27, 2022, the Group decided to sus-
pend all its business activities in Russia until further notice.
D.15 The increased risks in connection with the Russia-Ukraine war
Cost of sales led to an impairment of trade receivables of €100 million,
which was recognized accordingly in selling expenses. Addi-
tionally in 2022, a loss allowance of €18 million was also rec-
2022 2021
ognized on inventories.
In millions of euros
Cost optimization programs
Expense of goods sold -38,717 -30,528
In all functional cost areas, there were expenses from cost-op-
Depreciation of equipment on operating leases -716 -670
timization programs in connection with the measures agreed
Refinancing costs at Financial Services -726 -409
with the General Works Council of Mercedes-Benz Group AG in
Impairment losses on receivables
December 2019 to cut the Group’s costs and reduce jobs in a
from Financial Services -174 -103
socially responsible manner. The expenses were primarily
Other cost of sales -1,180 -809
attributable to the Mercedes-Benz and Daimler Buses seg-
-41,513 -32,519
ments.
Furthermore, the Group recognized a restructuring provision in
The increase in the Group’s cost of sales is mainly due to connection with the transformation plan announced by
higher sales in 2022 than in 2021. Mercedes-Benz do Brasil Ltda. (Brazil) in September 2022 to
restructure certain internal tasks and thus reduce costs and
In 2022, the cost of sales also increased due to expenses for cut approximately 2,200 jobs in a socially responsible manner.
risk provisions, and increased portfolio and interest rates in The expenses were attributable to the Mercedes-Benz and
the Financial Services segment. Daimler Buses segments.
Expense of goods sold includes amortization expense of capi-
talized development costs in the amount of €120 million (2021:
€183 million).
The expense of goods sold also includes, among other
expenses, cost optimization programs to reduce fixed costs
(refer to table  D.16).
7. Other operating income and expense
Table  D.16 provides an overview of the composition of the
total expenditure of the cost optimization program.
The composition of other operating income is shown in table
 D.18.
D.16
Expenses associated with cost optimization programs
D.18
2022 2021
Other operating income
In millions of euros
2022 2021
Cost of sales 176 67 In millions of euros
Selling expenses 5 18
General administrative expenses 42 39 Gain on Bargain purchase related to
Research and non-capitalized Phase 2 transactions 123 -
development costs 1 17 Income from the termination of
224 141 pre-existing relationships -44 -
Income from costs recharged 310 382
Government grants and subsidies 51 61
Gain on disposal of property,
Personnel expenses and average number of employees plant and equipment 34 48
Personnel expenses included in the Consolidated Statement of Rental income not relating to sales financing 42 34
Income amounted to €7,820 million in 2022 (2021: €7,093 mil- Gain from the loss of control of cellcentric - -1,215
lion). Personnel expenses comprise wages and salaries in the Miscellaneous other operating income 276 289
amount of €6,016 million (2021: €5,404 million), social- 880 2,029
security contributions in the amount of €1,479 million (2021:
€1,298 million) and expenses from pension obligations in the
amount of €325 million (2021: €391 million). In 2022, other operating income includes gain on bargain pur-
chase for acquisitions at a price below market value of
Pursuant to Section 314 Subsection1 No. 4 of the German €123 million and income from the termination of pre-existing
Commercial Code (“HGB”), the average numbers of people relationships of €44 million. Both incomes are due to the
employed in the Daimler Truck Group, are shown in table acquired Financial Services business.
 D.17.
Income from costs recharged includes income from licenses
and patents, as well as shipping costs and other costs charged,
D.17 with related expenses primarily within the functional costs.
Average number of employees
Government grants and subsidies mainly comprise reimburse-
2022 2021
ments relating to current early-retirement contracts and subsi-
dies for alternative drive systems.
Trucks North America 27,630 25,392
Mercedes-Benz 44,278 42,985
In 2021, other operating income included the gain from the
Trucks Asia 16,244 16,255
loss of control of the cellcentric GmbH & Co. KG joint venture
Daimler Buses 16,385 16,491
resulting in a positive effect on earnings of €1,215 million in
Financial Services 1,577 1,281
other operating income, of which €624 million is accounted for
Central Functions & Services¹ 2,324 1,137
in particular by the remeasurement of the 50.00% interest in
108,438 103,541
cellcentric GmbH & Co. KG that is held by the Daimler Truck
1 Including entities which are not allocated to reportable segments and are
Group.
presented under Reconciliation within the segment reporting.
Information on the total remuneration of the key management
E
personnel is provided in Note 39. Remuneration of the
members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory
Board.
9. Interest income and interest expense
The composition of other operating expense is shown in table
 D.19.
Table  D.21 shows the components of interest income and
interest expense.
D.19
Other operating expense
D.21
2022 2021
Interest income and interest expense
In millions of euros
2022 2021
Goodwill impairment loss - -40 In millions of euros
Loss on disposal of property,
plant and equipment -18 -22 Interest income
Miscellaneous other operating expense -159 -286 Interest and similar income 198 73
-177 -348 198 73
Interest expense
Net interest expense on the net obligation
Miscellaneous other operating expense also includes
from defined benefit pension plans -55 -48
provisions for liability and litigation risks and regulatory
Interest and similar expense -190 -108
p roceedings.
-245 -156
8. Other financial income/expense, net
10. Income taxes
Table  D.20 shows the components of other financial income/
expense, net. Table  D.22 shows the components of income taxes.
D.20 D.22
Other financial income/expense, net Components of income taxes
2022 2021 2022 2021
In millions of euros In millions of euros
Income and expense from compounding Current taxes -1,062 -777
and effects from changes in discount rates Deferred taxes 376 -114
of provisions for other risks 139 26
-686 -891
Miscellaneous other financial
income/expense, net -49 54
90 80
The current tax expense includes tax expenses recognized for
prior periods at German and non-German subsidiaries of
€4 million (2021: expense of €12 million).
The deferred tax income or expense is comprised of the com- The change in unrecognized deferred tax assets in 2022 pre-
ponents shown in table  D.23. dominantly result from companies forming the German tax
group of Daimler Truck Holding AG.
D.23 Tax-free income and non-deductible expenses include effects
Components of deferred tax income (+) or expense (-) from non-German and German legal entities and operations,
for example, from tax-free dividends and non-deductible
2022 2021
expenses resulting from such dividends.
In millions of euros
The Other effects primarily relate to foreign currency effects,
Deferred taxes due to temporary differences 342 -139
inflationary effects and withholding taxes.
Deferred taxes due to tax loss carryforwards and
tax credits 34 25
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if the
376 -114
deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied
by the same taxation authority and if there is the right to set
off current tax assets against current tax liabilities. In the Con-
Daimler Truck Holding AG is domiciled in Germany with an solidated Statement of Financial Position, deferred tax assets
applicable income tax rate of 29.8% in 2022 and 2021, respec- and liabilities are presented as shown in table  D.25.
tively. It consists of a federal corporate income tax rate of
15.0%, a solidarity tax surcharge of 5.5% on each year’s federal
corporate income taxes, and a trade tax rate of 14.0%. The D.25
deferred taxes were measured using the substantively enacted Deferred tax assets and liabilities
tax rates of the respective tax jurisdictions.
2022 2021
In millions of euros
Table  D.24 shows a reconciliation of expected income tax
expense to actual income tax expense determined using the
Deferred tax assets 1,643 1,388
unchanged applicable German combined statutory tax rate of
Deferred tax liabilities -65 -68
29.8%.
Deferred tax assets, net 1,578 1,320
D.24
Reconciliation of expected income tax expense to
actual income tax expense
2022 2021
In millions of euros
Expected income tax expense -1,029 -976
Foreign tax rate differential 133 71
Trade tax rate differential 5 18
Tax law changes -19 20
Change in unrecognized deferred tax assets 364 32
Tax-free income and non-deductible expenses -126 15
Other -14 -71
-686 -891
In respect of each type of temporary difference and in respect The development of net deferred tax assets, is shown in table
of each type of unutilized tax loss carryforwards and unutilized  D.27.
tax credits, the deferred tax assets and liabilities before offset
are summarized in table  D.26.
D.27
Change of deferred tax assets, net
D.26
2022 2021
Split of deferred tax assets and liabilities before offset
In millions of euros
At December 31,
2022 2021 Deferred tax assets, net as of January 1 1,320 1,159
In millions of euros Deferred tax benefit/expense in the
Consolidated Statement of Income 376 -114
Intangible assets 81 67 Change of deferred tax assets/ liabilities on
equity instruments / debt instruments
Property, plant and equipment 51 28 included in other comprehensive income -1 3
Equipment on operating leases 63 47 Change of deferred tax assets/ liabilities on
Inventories 235 173 derivative financial instruments included
Receivables from financial services 161 183 in other comprehensive income -33 -1
Miscellaneous assets, mainly other financial Change of deferred tax assets/ liabilities on
assets 1,286 1,213 actuarial gains/ losses from defined benefit
pension plans included in other
Tax loss carryforwards and comprehensive income -153 162
unused tax credits 530 521
Other changes1 69 111
Provisions for pensions and similar
obligations 175 227 Deferred tax assets, net as of December 31 1,578 1,320
Other provisions 928 800 1 Other changes primarily relate to effects from currency translation.
Liabilities 1,060 1,056
Deferred income 733 729
Miscellaneous liabilities 17 11 Tax expense that was recognized in comprehensive income is
5,320 5,055 as shown in table  D.28.
Unrecognized deferred tax assets -716 -1,349
thereof on temporary differences -248 -858
thereof on tax loss carryforwards -468 -491 D.28
Deferred tax assets, gross 4,604 3,706
Total comprehensive income
Development costs -228 -214
Other intangible assets -50 -52 2022 2021
Property, plant and equipment -735 -856 In millions of euros
Equipment on operating leases -750 -782
Inventories -63 -30 Income tax expense in the Consolidated State-
ment of Income -686 -891
Receivables from financial services -148 -2
Income tax expense or benefit
Miscellaneous assets -117 -47 recognized in other reserves -187 164
Provisions for pensions and -873 -727
similar obligations -857 -374
Other provisions -27 -16
Miscellaneous liabilities -51 -13
Deferred tax liabilities, gross -3,026 -2,386
Unrecognized deferred tax assets decreased by €633 million
Deferred tax assets, net 1,578 1,320
during 2022 (2021: decrease of €553 million). Unrecognized
deferred tax assets decreased in 2022 by €364 million and
decreased in 2021 by €32 million in the Consolidated State-
ment of Income. Outside of profit or loss, unrecognized
deferred tax assets decreased in 2022 by €269 million (2021:
decrease of €521 million). The changes recognized outside
profit or loss primarily result from the recognition or reversal
of write-downs in other comprehensive income.
At December 31, 2022, deductible temporary differences for
which no deferred tax assets are recognized are €762 million
(December 31, 2021: €2,826 million).
Furthermore, at December 31, 2022, unused corporate income From the current perspective, the retained earnings of
tax losses for which no deferred tax assets are recognized non-German subsidiaries (prior to the spin-off: legal entities
amount to €1,367 million (December 31, 2021: €1,450 million), and operations) are largely intended to be reinvested in those
of which €1,268 million of unused tax losses can be carried subsidiaries. The Daimler Truck Group did not recognize
forward indefinitely (December 31, 2021: €1,369 million). At deferred tax liabilities on retained earnings of non-German
December 31, 2022, €25 million of unused corporate income subsidiaries of €7,115 million (December 31, 2021: €8,426 mil-
tax losses for which no deferred tax assets are recognized are lion), which are intended to be reinvested. If those earnings
expected to expire within the next five years (December 31, were paid out as dividends, an amount of 5.0% would be taxed
2021: €31 million). €0 million of unused corporate income tax under German taxation rules and, if applicable, would be sub-
losses for which no deferred tax asset is recognized are ject to non-German withholding tax. Additionally, income tax
expected to expire in six to ten years (December 31, 2021: consequences might arise if the dividends first have to be dis-
€0 million). €74 million of unused corporate income tax losses tributed by a non-German subsidiary to a non-German holding
for which no deferred tax assets are recognized are expected company. Normally, the distribution would lead to an additional
to expire after more than ten years (December 31, 2021: income tax expense. It is not practicable to estimate the
€49 million). amount of taxable temporary differences for these undistrib-
uted foreign earnings.
At December 31, 2022, unused capital losses for which no
deferred tax assets are recognized are €67 million (Decem- The Daimler Truck Group has various unresolved issues con-
ber 31, 2021: €76 million). Moreover, unused state tax losses cerning open income tax years with the tax authorities in a
in the USA (in 2021 including trade tax losses) that can be car- number of jurisdictions. The Daimler Truck Group believes that
ried forward indefinitely or with expiry dates of up to 20 years it has recognized adequate liabilities for any future income
for which no deferred tax assets are recognized are €101 mil- taxes that may be owed for all open tax years. Nevertheless, it
lion (December 31, 2021: €130 million). cannot be ruled out that tax payments might exceed the liabili-
ties recognized in the financial statements.
The Daimler Truck Group believes that the utilization of those
deferred tax assets is not probable or it cannot be reliably doc- To compensate for tax risks arising from periods prior to the
umented that sufficient future taxable income will be available spin-off date, Daimler Truck Holding AG agreed to refund
against which the deductible temporary differences, tax loss future tax arrears payments from tax audits for periods in
carryforwards and tax credits can be offset. As the probability which the truck business was operated in a separate legal
criterion required by IAS12 – Income Taxes is therefore not ful- entity and for which Mercedes-Benz Group AG had not already
filled, no deferred tax assets are recognized, also in countries recognized any provisions for tax risks. The fair value of the lia-
with tax loss carryforwards that can be carried forward indefi- bility is measured at zero.
nitely.
To address concerns about uneven profit distribution and tax
The Daimler Truck Group incurred tax losses in 2022 or 2021 in contributions of large multinational corporations, various
some subsidiaries (prior to the spin-off: legal entities and oper- agreements have been reached at the global level, including an
ations). After offsetting the deferred tax assets against agreement by almost140 jurisdictions to introduce a global
deferred tax liabilities, the net deferred tax assets recognized minimum tax rate of15.0% (“Pillar 2”). In December 2021, the
at the Daimler Truck Group from these subsidiaries amount to Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
€640 million at December 31, 2022 (December 31, 2021: (“OECD”) published a draft legislative framework, followed by
€388 million). Thereof €385 million (December 31, 2021: detailed guidelines in March 2022 to be used by the individual
€194 million) relate to the German tax group of Daimler Truck countries that have signed the agreement to amend their local
Holding AG, which were recognized based on future expected tax laws. In December 2022, the EU adopted an EU directive
positive effects. These positive effects are based on higher on Pillar 2, which is largely based on the OECD Pillar 2 propos-
sales volumes for vehicles (supported by current level of cus- als. This EU directive must now be transposed into the national
tomer orders and expected market development) and compo- law of the EU member states by the end of 2023 so that the
nents, as well as price increases (supported by current level of regulations within the EU can enter into force from 2024. At
customer orders and pricing campaigns). Based on these con- the time of approval of the Consolidated Financial Statements,
vincing evidence we only consider a planning period of three there was no German draft law yet available. However, it is
years. The Daimler Truck Group believes it is probable that well-known that legislative implementation is being worked on
there will be sufficient future taxable income to utilize these in Germany and a large number of other countries. The Daimler
deferred tax assets. The Daimler Truck Group’s current esti- Truck Group assumes that the Pillar 2 regulations will be
mate of deferred tax assets which are considered to be realiz- applied for the first time for the 2024 financial year and has ini-
able may change in the future, which may require higher or tiated the necessary measures to enable the timely application
lower deferred tax assets. of the Pillar 2 regulations. The progress of the legislative pro-
cess in each jurisdiction Daimler Truck operates in is closely
monitored.
11. Intangible assets
In 2021, Daimler Truck AG (“DTAG”) entered into several new
license agreements with the Mercedes-Benz Group for the
The development of intangible assets is shown in table  D.31. rights-to-use brands, patents and IP domains. The most signifi-
cant license agreement is the right-to-use of the
Intangible assets include assets with indefinite lives, such as Mercedes-Benz brand for an indefinite period of time in
goodwill, distribution rights and brands. The Group intends to exchange for no consideration. The right-to-use of the brand is
continue to use these assets. Table  D.29 shows goodwill by included in other intangible assets and the carrying amount as
segment and within Reconciliation in the segment reporting. of December 31, 2022 was €932 million (December 31, 2021:
Intangible assets with indefinite lives, excluding goodwill, are €932 million). The useful life of the brand is indefinite, as for
€1,077 million at December 31, 2022 (December 31, 2021: the foreseeable future it is expected to continue to generate
€1,083 million). net cash inflow for the Group and the brand itself is well-estab-
lished and has demonstrated its ability to survive change.
D.29 The brand is subject to an annual impairment test on a CGU
Goodwill by segment level for the Mercedes-Benz and Daimler Buses segments. The
impairment test at December 31, 2022 did not require any
At December 31,
impairment.
2022 2021
In millions of euros
Table  D.30 shows the line items of the Consolidated State-
ment of Income in which the total amortization expense for
Trucks North America1 253 240
intangible assets is included.
Mercedes-Benz 201 195
Trucks Asia 85 80
Daimler Buses 4 4
D.30
Financial Services 9 -
Amortization expense for intangible assets
Reconciliation2 122 115
in the Consolidated Statement of Income
674 634
1 Primarily changes from currency translation. 2022 2021
2 Goodwill within Reconciliation relates to the TORC Robotics, Inc. cash-gen- In millions of euros
erating unit.
Cost of sales 150 213
Selling expenses 7 7
General administrative expenses 18 7
Research and non-capitalized
development costs 11 17
Other operating expense - 40
186 284
D.31
Intangible assets
Development costs Other intangible
Goodwill (internally generated) assets2 Total
In millions of euros
Acquisition/manufacturing costs
Balance at January 1, 2021 760 2,671 1,028 4,459
Additions due to business combinations - - - -
Other additions - 176 1,074 1,250
Reclassifications - - - -
Disposals - -224 -57 -281
Other changes1 61 -3 -4 54
Balance at December 31, 2021 821 2,620 2,041 5,482
Additions due to business combinations 17 - 8 25
Other additions 6 167 68 241
Reclassifications - - - -
Disposals - -856 -58 -914
Other changes1 24 -7 -23 -6
Balance at December 31, 2022 868 1,924 2,036 4,828
Depreciation
Balance at January 1, 2021 134 1,950 693 2,777
Additions 40 183 61 284
Reclassifications - - - -
Disposals - -224 -56 -280
Other changes1 13 -3 -9 1
Balance at December 31, 2021 187 1,906 689 2,782
Additions - 120 66 186
Reclassifications - - - -
Disposals - -856 -49 -905
Other changes1 7 -6 -15 -14
Balance at December 31, 2022 194 1,164 691 2,049
Carrying amount at December 31, 2021 634 714 1,352 2,700
Carrying amount at December 31, 2022 674 760 1,345 2,779
1 Primarily changes from currency translation.
2 Other intangible assets include assets subject to amortization and assets with indefinite useful lives not subject to amortization. The carrying amount of the
right to use the Mercedes-Benz brand at December 31, 2022 was €932 million (December 31, 2021: €932 million).
12. Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment as shown in the Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position with a carrying amount of
€7,993 million at December 31, 2022 (December 31, 2021:
€7,860 million) includes right-of-use assets related to lessee
accounting.
The development of property, plant and equipment, excluding
right-of-use assets, is shown in table  D.32.
During 2022, government grants of €14 million (2021: €9 mil-
lion) were deducted from other additions within property, plant
and equipment.
D.32
Property, plant and equipment (excluding right-of-use assets)
Land, buildings Technical Other equipment, Advance payments
and leasehold equipment and factory and office and construction in
improvements machinery equipment progress Total
In millions of euros
Acquisition or manufacturing costs
Balance at January 1, 2021 4,780 6,748 6,865 668 19,061
Additions due to business combinations - - - - -
Other additions 46 93 155 459 753
Reclassifications 198 140 200 -538 -
Disposals -31 -238 -365 -9 -643
Other changes1 54 -5 104 12 165
Balance at December 31, 2021 5,047 6,738 6,959 592 19,336
Additions due to business combinations 19 - 2 - 21
Other additions 72 94 169 563 898
Reclassifications 93 139 245 -477 -
Disposals -35 -174 -151 -34 -394
Other changes1 3 69 106 8 186
Balance at December 31, 2022 5,199 6,866 7,330 652 20,047
Depreciation
Balance at January 1, 2021 2,343 4,849 5,293 7 12,492
Additions 107 276 296 4 683
Reclassifications - 2 - -2 -
Disposals -16 -229 -308 - -553
Other changes1 23 -33 71 2 63
Balance at December 31, 2021 2,457 4,865 5,352 11 12,685
Additions 112 281 342 3 737
Reclassifications - - - - -
Disposals -15 -165 -128 -4 -312
Other changes1 -4 37 63 -1 96
Balance at December 31, 2022 2,550 5,018 5,629 9 13,206
Carrying amount at December 31, 2021 2,590 1,873 1,607 581 6,651
Carrying amount at December 31, 2022 2,649 1,847 1,703 642 6,841
1 Primarily changes from currency translation.
Table  D.33 shows the composition of the right-of-use assets. Table  D.36 includes cash outflows related to lessee account-
ing. Total cash outflow for lease contracts include expense
payments for interest expense, and other expenses related to
D.33 lessee accounting as shown in table  D.35. Future cash out-
Right-of-use assets flows that are not yet reflected in the lease liabilities relate to
potential extension options, which are exercisable by the
At December 31
Group.
2022 2021
In millions of euros
D.36
Land, leasehold improvements and buildings 1,109 1,166
Cash outflows related to lessee accounting
Technical equipment and machinery 5 3
Other equipment, factory and
office equipment 38 40 2022 2021
1,152 1,209 In millions of euros
Total cash outflow for lease contracts 288 251
Future cash outflows that are not
Tables  D.34 and  D.35 contain additional information
reflected in the lease liabilities 874 953
related to lessee accounting.
13. Equipment on operating leases
D.34
Additions and depreciations for right-of-use assets
The development of equipment on operating leases is shown in
2022 2021
table  D.37.
In millions of euros
Additions to right-of-use assets 250 201
D.37
Equipment on operating leases
Depreciation for
Land, leasehold improvements and 2022 2021
buildings 183 175 In millions of euros
Technical equipment and machinery 1 1
Other equipment, factory and
Acquisition/manufacturing costs
office equipment 14 17
198 193
Balance at January 1 5,387 5,655
Additions due to business combinations
(fair value) 402 -
Other additions 2,020 1,077
Disposals -1,538 -1,341
D.35
Other changes1 1 -4
Expenses related to lessee accounting Balance at December 31 6,273 5,387
2022 2021 Depreciation/impairment
In millions of euros Balance at January 1 1,845 1,909
Additions 716 670
Interest expense from lease transactions 24 28 Disposals -727 -725
Expenses from short-term leases 54 18 Other changes1 6 -9
Expenses from leases of low-value assets 5 5 Balance at December 31 1,840 1,845
Expenses from variable lease payments 12 6
Carrying amount at January 1 3,542 3,746
Carrying amount at December 31 4,433 3,542
1 Primarily changes from currency translation.
Additions due to business combinations relate to the Financial
Services business acquired from Mercedes-Benz Group. For
E
more information, refer to Note 4. Business combinations.
14. Equity-method investments
Lease payments
Non-cancelable future lease payments to the Daimler Truck
Group for equipment on operating leases are due as presented Table  D.39 shows the carrying amounts and earnings on
in table  D.38. equity-method investments.
Table  D.40 presents key figures on interests in joint ven-
D.38 tures accounted for using the equity method in the Daimler
Maturity of undiscounted lease payments for Truck Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
equipment on operating leases
At December 31,
2022 2021
In millions of euros
Mature
Within one year 827 742
Between one and two years 530 480
Between two and three years 438 367
Between three and four years 335 255
Between four and five years 182 155
Later than five years 91 82
2,403 2,081
D.39
Summarized carrying amounts and gains/losses from equity-method investments
Associated Joint Joint
companies ventures operations Total
In millions of euros
At December 31, 2022
Equity investment1 120 934 19 1,073
Equity earnings1 14 -248 8 -226
At December 31, 2021
Equity investment1 120 1,233 16 1,369
Equity earnings1 -28 129 5 106
1 Including investor-level adjustments of the Group.
D.40
Key figures on interests in joint ventures accounted for using the equity method
Cellcentric2 BFDA2 Others Total
In millions of euros
At December 31, 2022
Equity interest (in %) 50.0 50.0
Equity investment1 686 234 14 934
Equity earnings1 -53 -80 -115 -248
At December 31, 2021
Equity interest (in %) 50.0 50.0
Equity investment1 654 474 105 1,233
Equity earnings1 -51 151 29 129
1 Including investor-level adjustments.
2 No dividends were paid to the Daimler Truck Group in any of the presented periods.
Beijing Foton Daimler Automotive Co. Ltd Other
Beijing Foton Daimler Automotive Co. Ltd is a joint venture Daimler KAMAZ Trucks Holding GmbH
between the Daimler Truck Group (50.00%) and Beiqi Foton On February 27, 2022, the Group decided to suspend all busi-
Motor Co. Ltd (50.00%). The entity was founded in Decem- ness activities in Russia until further notice due to Russia-
ber 2011 and started its operations in July 2012. The main Ukraine war. In addition, an impairment test was performed on
activities of Beijing Foton Daimler Automotive Co. Ltd are the February 28, 2022 for the joint venture Daimler KAMAZ Trucks
design, development, production/assembly and sales of Holding GmbH, a joint venture with Russian truck manufacturer
medium and heavy-duty trucks, engines and parts. The invest- KAMAZ PTC. This resulted in an impairment of the equity-
ment is allocated to the Trucks Asia segment. method carrying amount of €71 million to €0 million in the first
quarter of 2022, which was attributed to the Mercedes-Benz
In October 2020, the Daimler Truck Group granted a technol- segment.
ogy license agreement (“TLA”) to Beijing Foton Daimler Auto-
motive Co. Ltd in connection with the localization of On December 30, 2022, Daimler Kamaz Trucks Holding GmbH
Mercedes-Benz trucks for the Chinese market. This agreement was sold to KAMAZ PTC for a sales price of €1. As a result of
includes the use of certain intellectual property rights by Bei- the sale, there was a loss on disposal in the fourth quarter of
jing Foton Daimler Automotive Co. Ltd for the localization of 2022 in connection with the cumulative translation differences
Mercedes-Benz H6 Technology in exchange for a license fee. of €43 million.
Daimler Truck AG transferred the final technical product docu-
mentation in the second quarter of 2022 and thus fulfilled the Commercial Vehicle Charging Europe BV
obligation from the TLA. In third quarter of 2022, the Daimler Truck Group, together
with Volvo Group and TRATON Group, established together the
At a Group level, this transaction is a downstream transaction joint venture Commercial Vehicle Charging Europe BV for the
with a joint venture. For this reason, an elimination was construction and operation of a high-performance charging
displayed which reduced the investment valued at equity by network for battery-powered trucks and touring coaches.
€159 million.
The joint venture is held in equally owned by the three parties
Cellcentric GmbH & Co. KG and is included in the Consolidation Financial Statements in
Cellcentric GmbH &Co.KG is a joint venture of the Daimler accordance with the equity method. Commercial Vehicle
Truck Group (50.00%) and the Volvo Group (50.00%) with head- Charging Europe BV related activities are not assigned to a
quarters in Kirchheim unter Teck, Germany. Cellcentric GmbH reportable segment and presented under Reconciliation within
& Co. KG primarily develops, produces and markets efficient the Segment reporting. The Daimler Truck Group, the TRATON
fuel cell systems. Cellcentric GmbH & Co. KG related activities Group and the Volvo Group are each committed to provide
are not allocated to reportable segments and presented under capital contributions of €153 million.
Reconciliation within the Segment reporting.
Table  D.41 shows summarized IFRS financial information on
During 2022, the Daimler Truck Group and the Volvo Group significant joint ventures accounted for using the equi-
made capital contributions in a total amount of €170 million to ty-method after purchase price allocation which were the basis
Cellcentric GmbH & Co. KG (2021: €132 million), resulting in an for equity-method accounting in the Daimler Truck Group.
increase in the Daimler Truck Group’s equity investment of
€85 million (2021: €66 million). Table  D.42 shows summarized aggregated financial informa-
tion for other minor equity-method investments after purchase
price allocation and on a pro-rata basis.
Further information on equity-method investments is provided
E
in Note 38. Related party disclosures.
D.41
Summarized IFRS financial information on significant joint ventures accounted for using the equity-method
cellcentric BFDA
At December 31, At December 31,
2022 2021 2022 2021
In millions of euros
Information on the Consolidated Statement of Income/Loss1
Revenue 11 9 2,138 4,245
Depreciation and amortization -50 -37 -68 -54
Interest income - 0 1 -
Interest expense -1 - -7 -1
Income taxes - - -25 -36
Profit/loss after taxes -107 -103 -150 152
Total comprehensive income/loss -107 -103 -150 152
Information on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position1
Non-current assets 1,304 1271 1,651 1,368
Current assets 121 64 1,175 1,075
Non-current liabilities 34 21 613 324
Current liabilities 38 26 1,350 1,239
Equity (including non-controlling interests) 1,353 1288 863 880
Reconciliation of share of IFRS equity¹ to the Group‹s equity-method carrying
amounts
Equity (excluding non-controlling interests) attributable to the Group1 677 654 431 440
Unrealized profit (-)/loss (+) on sales/purchases - 0 -5 -
Other reconciling items including investor level adjustments2 such as equity-method
goodwill, impairments and impairment reversals on the investment 9 - -192 34
Carrying amount of equity-method investment 686 654 234 474
1 Excluding investor-level adjustments.
2 Including the elimination relating to the Beijing Foton Daimler Automotive Co. Ltd H6 technology license agreement.
D.42
Summarized aggregated financial information on minor equity-method investments
Associated companies Joint ventures
2022 2021 2022 2021
In millions of euros
Summarized aggregated financial information (pro rata)
Profit/loss after taxes 14 -28 -1 29
Loss after taxes from discontinued operations - - -114 -
Other comprehensive income/loss - - - -
Total comprehensive income/loss 14 -28 -115 29
15. Receivables from financial services
Loss allowances
The development of loss allowances for receivables from finan-
Table  D.44 shows the components of receivables from finan- cial services due to expected credit losses is shown in table
cial services.  D.45.
Types of receivables In 2022, loss allowances of €174 million were charged to the
Receivables from sales financing with customers include Consolidated Statement of Income in the Financial Services
receivables from credit financing for customers who pur- segment (2021: €103 million). The increase in the loss allow-
chased their vehicles either from a dealer or directly from the ance primarily related to Phase 2 transactions during 2022
E
Daimler Truck Group. (refer to Note 4. Business combinations) as well as the
deteriorating macroeconomic outlook which were regularly
Receivables from sales financing with dealers represent loans updated due to, for example, the evolving impact of both rising
for dealer floorplan financing programs for vehicles sold by the inflation and the Russia-Ukraine war.
Industrial Business to dealers or loans for assets purchased by
dealers from third-parties, primarily used vehicles traded in by The carrying amounts of receivables from financial services
dealers’ customers, or for dealers’ real-estate financing. based on modified contracts that are shown in stages 2 and 3
amounted to €95 million at December 31, 2022 (December 31,
Receivables from finance lease contracts consist of receiv- 2021: €165 million). In addition, at December 31, 2022 carrying
ables from leasing contracts for which substantially all risks amounts of €68 million in connection with contractual modifi-
and rewards from the lease are transferred to the lessee. cations were reclassified from stages 2 and 3 to stage1
(December 31, 2021: €129 million).
All cash flow effects attributable to receivables from financial
services are presented within Cash flows from operating activi- Credit risks
ties in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Information on credit risks included in receivables from finan-
cial services is shown in table  D.46.
Table  D.43 shows the maturities of future contractual lease
payments and the development of lease payments with the Longer overdue periods regularly lead to higher loss allow-
carrying amounts of receivables from finance lease contracts. ances.
At the beginning of the contracts, minimum collaterals level of
D.43 100% of the carrying amounts were agreed, which are backed
Development of finance lease contracts by the vehicles based on the underlying contracts. Over the
contract terms, the amounts of the collaterals are included in
At December 31,
the calculation of the risk provisioning, so the carrying
2022 2021
amounts of the credit-impaired contracts are primarily backed
In millions of euros
by the underlying vehicles.
Contractual future lease payments 4,343 2,650
Further information on financial risk and the type of risk is
thereof due E
provided in Note 34. Management of financial risks.
within one year 1,447 1,024
between one and two years 1,240 672
At December 31, 2022, receivables from financial services with
between two and three years 644 456
a carrying amount of €1,307 million (December 31, 2021:
between three and four years 540 309
€1,072 million) were pledged as collateral for liabilities from
between four and five years 315 142 E
ABS transactions (refer to Note 25. Financing liabilities).
later than five years 157 47
Unguaranteed residual-values 290 56
Gross investment 4,633 2,706
Unearned finance income -475 -261
Gross carrying amount 4,158 2,445
Loss allowances -116 -79
Net carrying amount 4,042 2,366
D.44
Receivables from financial services
At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2021
Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total
In millions of euros
Gross carrying amount 10,264 12,707 22,971 7,278 9,218 16,496
Sales financing with customers 4,491 9,080 13,571 3,481 6,989 10,470
Sales financing with dealers 4,441 803 5,244 2,858 722 3,580
Finance lease contracts 1,332 2,824 4,156 939 1,507 2,446
Loss allowances -198 -348 -546 -123 -275 -398
Net carrying amount 10,066 12,359 22,425 7,155 8,943 16,098
D.45
Development of loss allowances for receivables from financial services due to expected credit losses
12-month expected credit loss Lifetime expected credit loss Total
not credit credit
impaired impaired
(Stage 1) (Stage 2) (Stage 3)
In millions of euros
Balance at January 1, 2021 93 47 231 371
Additions 40 10 119 169
Change in remeasurement -23 5 86 68
Utilization -1 -4 -68 -73
Reversals -49 -18 -89 -156
Transfer to stage 1 30 -12 -18 -
Transfer to stage 2 -3 9 -6 -
Transfer to stage 3 -1 -5 6 -
Currency translation and other changes 8 - 11 19
Balance at December 31, 2021 94 32 272 398
Additions 110 39 152 301
Change in remeasurement -4 20 86 102
Utilization - -2 -61 -63
Reversals -59 -17 -176 -252
Transfer to stage 1 36 -11 -25 -
Transfer to stage 2 -6 18 -12 -
Transfer to stage 3 -1 -5 6 -
Currency translation and other changes 1 - 59 60
Balance at December 31, 2022 171 74 301 546
D.46
Credit risks included in receivables from financial services
12-month expected credit loss Lifetime expected credit loss Total
not credit credit
impaired impaired
(Stage 1) (Stage 2) (Stage 3)
In millions of euros
At December 31, 2022
Gross carrying amount 21,211 1,184 576 22,971
thereof
not past due 20,925 509 246 21,680
past due 30 days and less 286 346 69 701
past due 31 to 60 days - 243 61 304
past due 61 to 90 days - 85 29 114
past due 91 to 180 days - 1 76 77
past due more than 180 days - - 95 95
At December 31, 2021
Gross carrying amount 15,590 404 502 16,496
thereof
not past due 15,368 184 153 15,705
past due 30 days and less 222 83 81 386
past due 31 to 60 days - 96 48 144
past due 61 to 90 days - 40 66 106
past due 91 to 180 days - 1 64 65
past due more than 180 days - - 90 90
16. Marketable debt securities and similar
investments
The marketable debt securities and similar investments with a
carrying amount of €1,145 million at December 31, 2022
(December 31, 2021: €139 million) are part of the Daimler
Truck Group’s liquidity management. It primarily comprises of
financial instruments recognized at fair value through other
comprehensive income, at fair value through profit or loss, or
at amortized cost.
When a short-term liquidity requirements is covered by quoted
securities, those securities are presented as current assets.
The increase in marketable debt securities and similar invest-
ments in 2021 compared with 2022 is primarily attributable to
the increase in financial instruments measured at fair value
through profit or loss and at fair value through other compre-
hensive income.
Further information on marketable debt securities and similar
E
investments is provided in Note 33. Financial instruments.
17. Other financial assets
Other financial receivables and miscellaneous other financial
assets includes receivables from unconsolidated subsidiaries,
Other financial assets presented in the Consolidated State- and receivables from the subsequent purchase price adjust-
ment of Financial Position is comprised as shown in table ments following the spin-off from the Mercedes-Benz Group,
 D.47. which are recognized at amortized cost.
The increase in Other financial assets is primarily due to the At December 31, 2022, assets with a carrying amount of
Group’s expansion of the business activities by using derivative €77 million (December 31, 2021: €71 million) were pledged as
E
financial instruments used in hedge accounting such as inter- collateral for liabilities (refer to Note 25. Financing liabili-
est rate and currency swaps to hedge the Group’s exposure to ties).
fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange movements.
Further information on other financial assets is provided in
E
Other financial assets recognized at fair value through profit or Note 33. Financial instruments.
loss relate exclusively to derivative financial instruments which
are not used in hedge accounting.
D.47
Other financial assets
At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2021
Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total
In millions of euros
Equity instruments and debt instruments - 461 461 - 482 482
Recognized at fair value through other comprehensive
income - 96 96 - 85 85
Recognized at fair value through profit or loss - 196 196 - 244 244
Measured at amortized cost - 169 169 - 153 153
Derivative financial instruments used in hedge accounting 60 137 197 42 21 63
Other financial assets recognized at fair value through profit
or loss 27 2 292 3 2 5
Other financial receivables and miscellaneous other
fi nancial assets 590 228 818 609 201 810
677 828 1,505 654 706 1,360
18. Other assets
Other expected reimbursements predominantly relate to
recovery claims against suppliers in connection with issued
Non-financial other assets are comprised as shown in table product warranties. Miscellaneous other assets primarily
 D.48. relate to assets recognized in connection with sales with a
right of return.
D.48
Other assets
At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2021
Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total
In millions of euros
Income tax refunds/reimbursements 130 37 167 111 58 169
Sales tax and other tax refunds/reimbursements 614 29 643 470 24 494
Other expected reimbursements 103 60 163 82 52 134
Prepaid expenses 156 19 175 178 13 191
Miscellaneous other assets 165 219 384 195 162 357
1,168 364 1,532 1,036 309 1,345
19. Inventories 20. Trade receivables
Inventories are comprised as shown in table  D.49. Trade receivables (non-current and current) are comprised as
shown in table  D.50.
D.49
Inventories D.50
Trade receivables
At December 31,
2022 2021 At December 31,
In millions of euros 2022 2021
In millions of euros
Raw materials and manufacturing supplies 1,901 1,314
Work in progress 2,744 2,642 Gross carrying amount 4,837 4,014
Finished goods, parts and Loss allowances -155 -52
products held for resale 4,157 3,832 Net carrying amount 4,682 3,962
Advance payments to suppliers 13 5
8,815 7,793
Trade receivables are receivables from contracts with custom-
ers within the scope of IFRS15.
In 2022, the amount of write-down of inventories to net realiz-
able value recognized as an expense in cost of sales amounted The Daimler Truck Group has transferred trade receivables
to €60 million (2021: €103 million). Inventories that are amounted to €154 million to third-party banks in exchange for
expected to be recovered or settled after more than twelve cash and cash equivalents. The receivables sold were derecog-
months amounted to €227 million at December 31, 2022 nized as all risks and opportunities were transferred to the
(December 31, 2021: €244 million) and are primarily spare banks.
parts.
Inventories rose by €1,022 million in 2022. The increase was
mainly due to bottlenecks in the supply chains. This led to a
significant number of trucks awaiting completion. In addition,
raw materials and manufacturing supplies increased due to the
expected production volume for 2023.
As collateral for certain vested employee benefits in Germany,
the value of vehicles pledged as collateral to the Daimler Truck
Pension Trust e.V. at December 31, 2022 included inventories
of €45 million and fixed assets (leased assets) of €354 million.
Loss allowances Credit risks
The development of loss allowances for trade receivables due Information on credit risks included in trade receivables is
to expected credit losses is shown in table  D.51. shown in table  D.52.
Further information on financial risk and types of risk is pro-
E
D.51 vided in Note 34. Management of financial risks.
Development of loss allowances for trade receivables due to
expected credit losses
D.52
Lifetime expected credit loss Total
Credit risks included in trade receivables
not
credit credit Lifetime expected credit loss Total
impaired impaired
not
(Stage 2) (Stage 3) credit credit
In millions of euros impaired impaired
(Stage 2) (Stage 3)
Balance at January 1, 2021 32 30 62 In millions of euros
Additions 9 1 10
Change in remeasurement -2 - -2
At December 31, 2022
Utilization -6 - -6
Reversals -5 -2 -7
Gross carrying amount 4,681 156 4,837
Transfer to stage 2 - - - thereof
Transfer to stage 3 - - - not past due 3,857 101 3,958
Currency translation and other past due 30 days and less 441 10 451
changes - -5 -5
past due 31 to 60 days 124 4 128
Balance at December 31, 2021 28 24 52
past due 61 to 90 days 47 1 48
Additions 9 1 10
Change in remeasurement 2 93 95
past due 91 to 180 days 83 2 85
Utilization -5 - -5
past due more than 180 days 129 38 167
Reversals -1 -2 -3
At December 31, 2021
Transfer to stage 2 - - -
Transfer to stage 3 - - -
Gross carrying amount 3,961 53 4,014
Currency translation and other
changes 3 3 6 thereof
not past due 3,360 15 3,375
Balance at December 31, 2022 36 119 155
past due 30 days and less 320 9 329
past due 31 to 60 days 85 3 88
past due 61 to 90 days 37 - 37
past due 91 to 180 days 81 1 82
past due more than 180 days 78 25 103
21. Equity
In the prior year, transactions with the Mercedes-Benz Group
in the context of the spin-off were reported in the Consoli-
The individual components of equity and their development dated Statement of Changes in Equity, such as the capital
during 2022 and 2021 are presented in the Consolidated State- injection from Mercedes-Benz Group AG in the scope of the
ment of Changes in Equity of the Daimler Truck Group, refer to equity and liquidity measures in accordance with the demerger
 D.05. agreement, which were included in the capital reserve of
Daimler Truck AG in accordance with Section 272 Subsection 2
Share capital No. 4 HGB, as well as the remaining invested equity (i.e., inso-
At December 31, 2022, the share capital of Daimler Truck far as it does not result from accumulated gains and losses
Holding AG amounted to €822,951,882 (December 31, 2022: and the revaluation of defined benefit plans and was not allo-
€822,951,882). The share capital is divided into 822,951,882 cated to a reserve), refer to table  D.53.
no-par-value registered shares. Pursuant to Section 67 Sub-
section 2 of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz
or “AktG”), rights and obligations arising from shares exclu- D.53
sively exist in relation to the Company for and against the per- Transactions with the Mercedes-Benz Group
sons entered in the share register. With the exception of trea-
2021
sury shares held by the Company, from which the Company
In millions of euros
does not derive any rights, all shares confer the same rights.
Each share grants its holder one vote and, with the exception
Capital and liquidity funding measures pursuant to
of any new shares not entitled to dividends, an equal share in
Section 17.4 of the demerger agreement (cash contribution) 5,380
the profits. The rights and obligations arising from the shares
Purchase price for Phase 1 transfers:
are based on applicable law, in particular Sections12, 53a et
Purchase price minus refinanced financial liabilities for
seq., 118 et seq. and 186 of the German Stock Corporation Act Financial Services entities and operations -1,435
(“AktG”). As of December 31, 2022, the Company did not hold Purchase price for Industrial Business entities and
any of its own shares (treasury shares). operations -1,431
Right-to-use of the Mercedes-Benz brand 932
The number of shares remained unchanged as of December 31, Other 226
2022. 3,672
For a presentation of earnings per share in accordance with
E
IAS 33 – Earnings per Share, refer to Note 37. Earnings per Table  D.02 shows the details of changes in other reserves in
share. other comprehensive income or loss.
Capital reserve Dividend
The capital reserve amounts to €14,277 million attributable to A motion will be made to the Annual General Meeting to dis-
the spin-off and contribution transactions of the prior year to tribute €1,070 million (€1.30 per no-par value share entitled to
the capital reserve in accordance with Section 272 Subsec- dividend) to the shareholders from the 2022 distributable
tion 2 No.1 HGB. profit of Daimler Truck AG and to carry forward the remaining
distributable profit of €292 million.
Retained earnings
Retained earnings comprise the accumulated profit/loss after Other reserves and equity components
tax of Daimler Truck Holding AG and all subsidiaries included Other reserves comprise accumulated unrealized gains and
in the Consolidated Financial Statements, less distributed prof- losses from currency translation of the financial statements of
its, as well as the effects of the revaluation of defined benefit the consolidated foreign companies and accumulated unreal-
pension plans less taxes. ized gains and losses on financial assets, derivative financial
instruments and equity instruments.
Furthermore, the other components of equity included
changes in the scope of consolidation resulting from the first-
time consolidation of Daimler Trucks Asia Taiwan Ltd. in the
first quarter.
22. Share-based payment
Performance Phantom Share Plan
In 2022, the Daimler Truck Group adopted a Performance
At December 31, 2022, the Group had in place Performance Phantom Share Plan (“PPSP”). Under the PPSP, the Group
Phantom Share Plans (“PPSP”) from 2019 to 2022. The PPSP grants phantom shares to eligible employees who are entitled
are measured as cash-settled share-based compensation to receive a cash payment after four years. During the four-
instruments at their respective fair values as of the reporting year term between the allocation of the preliminary phantom
date. They are paid at the end of their contractually defined shares and the payout of the plan at the end of the term, the
terms; early, pro rata payments are only possible under certain phantom shares earn a dividend equivalent in the amount of
conditions when leaving the Group. In the first half of 2022, the dividends paid in the respective year to actual Daimler
the PPSP 2018 was paid out. Truck Holding AG shares. Based on the resolution passed at
the Annual General Meeting in 2022 to not pay a dividend, a
Moreover, 50% of the Board of Management’s annual bonus dividend equivalent was also not paid.
will only be paid after waiting a period of one year. The actual
amount paid out is determined by the performance of the The payout amount at the end of the term is based on the
Daimler Truck Holding AG share compared with an automo- (final) number of vested phantom shares (determined after
tive-related index (STOXX Europe Auto Index). The fair value of three years depending on the degree of achievement of certain
the medium-term portion of the annual bonus, which depends key figures) multiplied by the price of the Daimler Truck Hold-
on this further performance, corresponds to the intrinsic value ing AG share (calculated as an average price over a specified
of the commitment as of the reporting date. period at the end of the four-year plan term). The vesting
period is there-fore four years. For the existing plans, the price
The pre-tax effects of the share-based payment transactions of the Daimler Truck Holding AG share is limited to 2.5 times
on the Consolidated Statement of Income and the Consoli- the price at the date of grant. Furthermore, the payout for the
dated Statement of Financial Position are shown in table members of the Board of Management is additionally limited to
 D.54. 2.5 times the allotment value used to determine the prelimi-
nary number of phantom shares. The limitation of the payout
for the members of the Board of Management also includes
D.54 the dividend equivalents.
Effects of share-based payment transactions
For the PPSP currently granted, target achievement is deter-
Expense Provision
mined on the basis of the relative share performance, which
31 December
measures the price performance of an equity index (total
2022 2021 2022 2021
shareholder return) based on a peer group including Daimler
In millions of euros
Truck Holding AG, and the return on sales (ROS) of the Daimler
Truck Group compared with the ROS of a peer group (reve-
PPSP -79 -174 281 223
nue-weighted average).
Medium-term compo-
nent of the annual
bonus of the members For the current PPSP 2019 to 2021 inclusive, the share per-
of the Board of Manage- formance and the ROS for the periods up to the spin-off were
ment¹ -6 -2 5 1
calculated based on the performance of Mercedes-Benz
-85 -176 286 224
Group AG (former Daimler AG), and for the periods after the
1 Prior to the spin-off, the expense of the Board of Management of
spin-off based on the performance of Daimler Truck Hold-
Mercedes-Benz Group AG is included in 2021 based on the proportional
share that was charged or allocated to Daimler Truck AG. ing AG. In the period from the first trading day of the Daimler
Truck Holding AG share on December10, 2021 to December 31,
2021, the average of the prices of the shares of Mercedes-Benz
Group AG (former Daimler AG) and Daimler Truck Holding AG
was taken into account for the relative share performance. The
performance of ROS was calculated until the end of 2021
based on Mercedes-Benz Group AG (former Daimler AG).
Special regulations apply to the PPSP 2019 to 2021 for the Defined benefit pension plans
members of the Board of Management of Daimler Truck Hold- Provisions for pension obligations are made for defined com-
ing AG, who were previously members of the Board of Manage- mitments to active and former employees of the Daimler Truck
ment of Mercedes-Benz Group AG (former Daimler AG): The Group and their surviving dependents. The defined benefit
Daimler Truck Group ROS must be higher than the same aver- pension plans provided by the Daimler Truck Group generally
age ROS of the peer group in order to obtain the same target vary according to the economic, tax and legal circumstances
achievement as the other plan participants. In this case, the of the country concerned. Most of the defined benefit pension
deviation of the average ROS of the Daimler Truck Group from plans also provide benefits in the case of invalidity and death.
the average ROS of the peer group multiplied by1.05 deter-
mines the level of the success factor. Furthermore, a limit on The Daimler Truck Group’s main pension plans are described
target achievement was agreed upon the ROS reference below.
parameter. In the case of target achievement between195%
and 200%, an additional comparison is made based on the German pension plans and pension plan assets
achieved ROS in absolute terms. Accordingly, if, in the third Most employees in Germany have defined benefit pension
year of the performance period, the actual ROS of the Daimler plans; most of the pension plans for the active workforce are
Truck Commercial Vehicles business is below the strategic tar- based on individual retirement benefit accounts, to which the
get return value of 9%, the target achievement is restricted to Daimler Truck Group makes annual contributions. The amount
195%. of the contributions for employees paid according to wage-tar-
iff agreements depends on the tariff classification in the
The Group recognizes a provision for awarding the PPSP in the respective year or on their respective income, and for execu-
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in provisions for tives it depends on their respective income. For the commit-
other risks. Since payment per vested phantom share depends ments to retirement benefits made until 2011, the contribu-
on the price of the Daimler Truck Holding AG share, that price tions continue to be converted into capital components and
essentially represents the fair value of each phantom share as credited to the individual pension accounts with the applica-
of the reporting date. The proportionate expense from the tion of fixed factors related to each employee’s age. The con-
PPSP recognized in the individual years are measured based version factors include a fixed value increase. For the commit-
on the price of the Daimler Truck Holding AG share and the ments to retirement benefits made as of 2011, the Daimler
estimated target achievement. Truck Group guarantees at a minimum the value of the contri-
butions paid into a cash-balance plan. Pension payments are
made either as a life annuity, twelve annual installments, or a
23. Pensions and similar obligations
single lump sum.
Table  D.55 shows the composition of provisions for pen- In addition, previously concluded defined benefit plans exist
sions and similar obligations. which primarily depend on employees’ wage-tariff classifica-
tion upon transition into the benefit phase and which foresee a
The Daimler Truck Group operates defined benefit pension life annuity.
plans and, to a lesser extent, defined contribution pension
plans, specific to the various countries. In addition, smaller As well as the employer-financed pension plans granted by
healthcare benefit obligations are recognized mainly in the German companies, the employees of some companies are
United States. also offered various deferred compensation models.
The pension obligations in Germany relating to defined benefit
D.55 pension plans are funded by investment funds. Before the
Composition of provisions for pensions and similar obligations spin-off, the assets had been held within contractual trust
arrangements (“CTA”s) between Daimler Pension Trust e.V.,
At December 31,
Daimler Truck AG and EvoBus GmbH, which have been trans-
2022 2021
ferred into CTA arrangements between Daimler Truck Pension
In millions of euros
Trust e.V. and Daimler Truck AG, EvoBus GmbH, and Daimler
Truck Financial Services GmbH in Germany.
Provision for pension benefits 591 1,850
Provision for other
In Germany, there are no statutory or regulatory minimum
post-employment benefits 556 621
funding requirements.
1,147 2,471
US pension plans and pension plan assets Risks from defined benefit pension plans and
There are several defined benefit pension plans in the US that pension plan assets
cover retirement and disability benefits and promise a balance The general requirements with regard to retirement benefit
at retirement age or monthly benefits. Most plans are contribu- models are included in guidelines valid for the entire Daimler
tion-based and the plan benefits depend on the employee’s Truck Group. Accordingly, the committed benefits are intended
salary, years of credited service, or both. While most employ- to contribute to additional financial security during retirement,
ee-financed plans are still open for new entrants, most of the and in the case of death or invalidity to be capable of being
employer-financed plans are closed for new entrants or frozen planned and fulfilled by the respective legal entity or opera-
with regard to further accrual. The contributions are deducted tions of the Daimler Truck Group, and to have a low-risk struc-
from the employee’s payroll and partially matched by the ture. In addition, a committee exists that approves new pen-
employer. The promised benefits have an implicit return on sion plans and amendments to existing pension plans as well
plan assets. Most of the US pension plans are funded by con- as guidelines relating to company retirement benefits.
tributions paid into a trust.
The obligations from defined benefit pension plans and the
Other countries’ pension plans and pension plan assets pension plan assets can be subject to fluctuations over time.
Other significant plans exist primarily in Japan, where the This can cause the funded status to be negatively or positively
majority of the plans are frozen and no significant new entitle- impacted. Fluctuations in the defined benefit pension obliga-
ments can be earned under these plans. The plans are related tions result at the Daimler Truck Group in particular from
to final salaries as well as salary-based components. Most of changes in financial assumptions such as discount rates and
the obligations outside Germany from defined benefit pension increases in the cost of living, but also from changes in demo-
plans are funded by investment funds. graphic assumptions such as adjusted life expectancies. With
most of the plans, expected long-term wage and salary
increases do not have an impact on the amount of the obliga-
tion.
The fair value of plan assets is predominantly determined by
the situation on the capital markets. Unfavorable develop-
ments, especially of equity prices and fixed-interest securities,
could reduce that fair value. The diversification of investment
funds, the engagement of asset managers using quantitative
and qualitative analyses, and the continual monitoring of per-
formance and risk help to reduce the associated investment
risk. The Group regularly makes contributions to plan assets to
fund future obligations from defined benefit pension plans.
As a general principle, it is the Daimler Truck Group’s objective
to design new pension plans as defined benefit plans based on
capital components or on annual contributions, or as defined
contribution plans.
Reconciliation of the net obligation from defined benefit
pension plans
The development of the relevant factors is shown in table
 D.56.
D.56
Present value of defined benefit pension obligations and fair value of plan assets
2022 2021
German US German US
Total Plans Plans Other Total Plans Plans Other
In millions of euros
Present value of the
defined benefit obligation
at January 1 7,951 5,401 2,069 481 8,555 6,064 1,961 530
Current service cost 212 142 57 13 222 165 47 10
Interest cost 131 59 63 9 96 29 60 7
Contributions by plan participants 9 9 - - 7 5 - 2
Actuarial gains (-)/losses -2,320 -1,715 -614 9 -765 -677 -80 -8
Actuarial gains (-)/losses from
changes in demographic assumptions 4 - 3 1 -3 - - -3
Actuarial gains (-)/losses from
changes in financial assumptions -2,380 -1,758 -616 -6 -751 -670 -73 -8
Actuarial gains (-)/losses from
experience adjustments 56 43 -1 14 -11 -7 -7 3
Past service cost, curtailments and settlements 2 - 3 -1 -1 - - -1
Pension benefits paid -209 -88 -95 -26 -189 -79 -79 -31
Currency exchange-rate changes and other changes 127 26 125 -24 26 -106 160 -28
Present value of the
defined benefit obligation
at December 31 5,903 3,834 1,608 461 7,951 5,401 2,069 481
Fair value of plan assets
at January 1 6,109 4,024 1,805 280 5,644 3,822 1,554 268
Actual result on plan assets -994 -589 -375 -30 325 178 125 22
Interest income from plan assets 104 44 57 3 64 18 43 3
Actuarial gains/losses (-) -1,098 -633 -432 -33 261 160 82 19
Contributions by the employer 318 294 2 22 225 140 61 24
Contributions by plan participants 10 9 - 1 6 5 - 1
Pension benefits paid -190 -88 -83 -19 -171 -78 -69 -24
Currency exchange-rate changes and other changes 107 4 114 -11 80 -43 134 -11
Fair value of plan assets
at December 31 5,360 3,654 1,463 243 6,109 4,024 1,805 280
Funded status at December 31 -543 -180 -145 -218 -1,842 -1,377 -264 -201
actuarial loss due to asset ceiling -2 - - -2 - - - -
Net defined benefit liability -545 -180 -145 -220 -1,842 -1,377 -264 -201
thereof recognized in other assets 46 1 43 2 8 1 - 7
thereof recognized in provisions for
pensions and similar obligations -591 -181 -188 -222 -1,850 -1,378 -264 -208
Composition of plan assets The investment strategy is reviewed regularly and adjusted if
Plan assets are used solely to provide pension benefits and to deemed necessary. The investment strategy is determined by
cover the administration costs of the plan assets. The compo- Investment Committees, which had been generally composed
sition of the Daimler Truck Group’s pension plan assets is of representatives of the Finance and Human Resources
shown in table  D.57. departments of Daimler Truck AG, Daimler Truck Financial Ser-
vices GmbH and EvoBus GmbH. The pension plan assets are
Market prices are usually available for equities and bonds due generally oriented towards the structure of the pension obliga-
to their listings in active markets. Most of the bonds have tions.
investment-grade ratings. This includes government bonds
with very good credit ratings. Pension cost
The components of pension cost included in the Consolidated
Statement of Income are shown in table  D.58.
D.57
Composition of plan assets
At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2021
German US German US
Total Plans Plans Other Total Plans Plans Other
In millions of euros
Equities 1,194 807 322 65 1,758 1,230 445 83
Bonds 2,697 1,683 875 139 3,669 2,387 1,098 184
Government bonds 675 284 323 68 955 485 384 86
Corporate bonds 2,021 1,399 552 70 2,705 1,901 714 90
Securitized bonds 1 - - 1 9 1 - 8
Other exchange-traded instruments 17 16 - 1 1 - - 1
Exchange-traded instruments 3,908 2,506 1,197 205 5,428 3,617 1,543 268
Alternative investments 173 - 172 1 175 - 173 2
Real-estate 56 - 45 11 57 - 46 11
Other non-exchange-traded instruments 530 504 - 26 122 132 - -10
Cash and cash equivalents 693 644 49 - 327 275 43 9
Non-exchange-traded instruments 1,452 1,148 266 38 681 407 262 12
Fair value of plan assets 5,360 3,654 1,463 243 6,109 4,024 1,805 280
D.58
Pension cost
2022 2021
German US German US
Total Plans Plans Other Total Plans Plans Other
In millions of euros
Current service cost -212 -142 -57 -13 -222 -165 -47 -10
Past service cost, curtailments and settlements -2 - -3 1 1 - - 1
Net interest expense -27 -15 -6 -6 -32 -11 -17 -4
-241 -157 -66 -18 -253 -176 -64 -13
Measurement assumptions Sensitivity analysis
The measurement date for the Daimler Truck Group’s defined An increase or decrease in the main actuarial assumptions
benefit pension obligations and plan assets is generally Decem- would affect the present value of the defined benefit pension
ber 31. The measurement date for the Daimler Truck Group’s obligations as shown in table  D.60.
net periodic pension cost is generally January1. The assump-
tions used to calculate the defined benefit obligations vary The calculations carried out by actuaries were done in isolation
according to the economic conditions of the countries in which for the evaluation parameters regarded as material. This
the pension plans are situated. Calculation of the defined bene- means that if there is a simultaneous change in several param-
fit obligations for the German plans uses life expectancy based eters, the individual results cannot be summed due to correla-
on the 2018 G Heubeck mortality tables. The tables reflect tion effects. With a change in the parameters, the sensitivities
the latest statistics of the statutory pension insurance system shown cannot be used to derive a linear development of the
and of the German Federal Statistical Office. Comparable defined benefit obligation.
country-specific calculation methods are used for non-German
plans. For the calculation of the sensitivity of life expectancy, by
means of fixed (non-age-dependent) factors for a reference
Table  D.59 shows the significant weighted-average measure- person, a one-year higher or lower life expectancy was
ment factors used to calculate pension benefit obligations. assumed.
D.59
Significant factors for the calculation of pension benefit obligations
At December 31, At December 31, At December 31,
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
German German US US
Plans Plans Plans Plans Other Other
In percent
Discount rates 3.8 1.2 5.4 2.9 3.4 2.0
Expected increase in cost of living1 2.2 1.8 - - - -
1 For German plans, expected increases in cost of living may affect – depending on the design of the pension plan – the obligation to the Daimler Truck
Group’s active employees as well as to retirees and their survivors. For most non-German plans, expected increases in cost of living do not have a material
impact on the amount of the obligation.
D.60
Sensitivity analysis for the present value of defined benefit pension obligations
At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2021
German US German US
Total Plans Plans Other Total Plans Plans Other
In millions of euros
Sensitivity for discount rates 0.25% -196 -121 -52 -23 -308 -224 -73 -11
Sensitivity for discount rates -0.25% 179 128 41 10 330 239 78 13
Sensitivity for expected increases in
cost of living 0.10% 5 5 - - 10 7 - 3
Sensitivity for expected increases in
cost of living -0.10% -7 -5 - -2 -8 -7 - -1
Sensitivity for life expectancy + 1 year 58 17 38 3 99 26 69 4
Sensitivity for life expectancy - 1 year -87 -15 -56 -16 -95 -23 -69 -3
Effect on future cash flows Defined contribution pension plans
The Daimler Truck Group currently plans to make contributions Under defined contribution pension plans, the Daimler Truck
of €111 million to its pension plans for 2023. The final amount Group makes defined contributions to external insurance poli-
is generally determined in the fourth quarter of a financial year. cies or investment funds. There are fundamentally no further
In 2022, allocations to the Daimler Truck Pension Trust e.V. contractual obligations or risks for the Daimler Truck Group in
amounted to €318 million, of which €250 million was allocated excess of the defined contributions. The Daimler Truck Group
on the basis of the 2021 demerger agreement. also pays contributions to governmental pension schemes. In
2022, the total expenses from defined contribution plans
The Daimler Truck Group anticipates pension payments of amounted to €584 million (2021: €609 million). Of those pay-
€226 million in 2023. ments, €479 million (2021: €456 million) was related to gov-
ernmental pension plans and €105 million (2021: €153 million)
The weighted-average durations of the defined benefit obliga- to defined contribution pension plans.
tions are shown in table  D.61.
Other post-employment benefits
Certain foreign legal entities and operations included in the
D.61 Daimler Truck Group, mainly in the United States, provide their
Weighted-average duration of the defined benefit obligations employees with post-employment health care benefits with
defined entitlements, which have to be accounted for as
At December 31,
defined benefit plans. Since the plans are unfunded, the bal-
2022 2021
ance sheet liability equals the present value of the defined
In years
benefit obligations of €556 million (December 31, 2021:
€621 million). The net expense amounted to €32 million (2021:
German plans 14 18
€23 million).
US plans 13 15
Other plans 11 12
Risks in connection with commitments for other post-employ-
ment benefits (medical care) relate to rising healthcare costs
and lower contributions to those costs from the public sector.
In addition, these plans are subject to the usual risks for
defined benefit plans, in particular the risk of changes in dis-
count rates.
24. Provisions for other risks
Liability and litigation risks and regulatory proceedings
Provisions for liability and litigation risks and regulatory pro-
The development of provisions for other risks is summarized in ceedings comprise costs for various legal proceedings, claims
table  D.62. and governmental investigations, which can lead in particular
to payments of compensation, punitive damages or other
Product warranties costly actions. Cash outflows from provisions for liability and
The Daimler Truck Group issues various types of product war- litigation risks as well as official proceedings are mainly
ranties, under which it generally guarantees the performance expected within a period up to 2026.
of products delivered and services rendered for a certain
period. The provision for these product warranties covers Further information on liability and litigation risks and regula-
E
expected costs for legal and contractual warranty claims as tory proceedings is provided in Note 31. Legal proceed-
well as expected costs for goodwill concessions and recall ings.
campaigns. The utilization date of product warranties depends
on the incidence of the warranty claims and can span the Other
entire term of the product warranties. The cash outflows in Provisions for other risks primarily comprise expected costs
relation to provisions for product warranties are primarily for provisions for environmental protection risks, decommis-
expected within a period until 2024. sioning costs, sales expenses, other taxes and restructuring
measures (including compensation payments). They also
Personnel and social costs include provisions for onerous contracts and various other
Provisions for personnel and social costs primarily comprise risks which cannot be allocated to any other class of provision.
expected expenses of the Daimler Truck Group for employee
anniversary bonuses, employee and management bonuses,
and early-retirement plans. The additions recorded to the pro-
visions for profit sharing and management bonuses in the
reporting year usually result in cash outflows in the following
year. The cash outflows for provisions for obligations relating
to personnel and social costs are primarily expected within a
period until 2026.
D.62
Provisions for other risks
Liability and
litigation
Personnel risks and
Product and social regulatory
warranties costs proceedings Other Total
In millions of euros
Balance at January 1, 2021 1,693 1,143 1,019 432 4,287
Additions 1,037 870 130 227 2,264
Utilizations -847 -389 -63 -88 -1,387
Reversals -259 -70 -24 -59 -412
Compounding and effects from changes in discount rates 3 -29 2 -2 -26
Currency translation and other changes 61 -36 6 -67 -36
Balance at December 31, 2021 1,688 1,489 1,070 443 4,690
thereof current 811 689 201 344 2,045
thereof non-current 877 800 869 99 2,645
Additions 1,387 880 79 231 2,577
Utilizations -970 -611 -106 -159 -1,846
Reversals -188 -81 -52 -78 -399
Compounding and effects from changes in discount rates - -117 -9 -13 -139
Currency translation and other changes 35 9 15 7 66
Balance at December 31, 2022 1,952 1,569 997 431 4,949
thereof current 856 892 127 331 2,206
thereof non-current 1,096 677 870 100 2,743
25. Financing liabilities
Financial Services
In connection with the Phase 2 transactions in 2022, the
The composition of financing liabilities is shown in table Daimler Truck Group acquired further Financial Services
 D.63. companies and Financial Services business units of the
E
Mercedes-Benz Group. Refer to Note 4. Business combi-
Information on the maturities of lease liabilities is provided in nations.
E
Note 34. Management of financial risks.
The purchase prices and portfolio growth of the Financial Ser-
At December 31, 2022, Financial liabilities included the vices business were primarily financed by issuing bonds on the
non-controlling interests held in the real estate management EUR, USD and CAD capital markets. The corresponding liabili-
companies Gamma (1-4) Daimler Truck Grundstückverwal- ties as of December 31, 2022 are included in Loans/Bonds.
tungs GmbH & Co. OHGs, and in the real estate management
company EvoBus GmbH & Co. OHG, in an amount of €191 mil-
lion (December 31, 2021: €209 million). For further information,
E
refer to Note 33. Financial instruments.
D.63
Financing liabilities
At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2021
Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total
In millions of euros
Notes/bonds 3,061 8,290 11,351 470 6,837 7,307
Commercial paper - - - - - -
Liabilities to financial institutions 3,237 2,812 6,049 4,016 2,225 6,241
Deposits in the direct banking business 326 479 805 191 361 552
Liabilities from ABS transactions 528 483 1,011 501 250 751
Lease liabilities 181 1,002 1,183 174 1,061 1,235
Loans and other financing liabilities 178 71 249 127 177 304
Non-controlling shareholdings
(puttable instruments) in accordance with IAS 32 - 191 191 - 209 209
7,511 13,328 20,839 5,479 11,120 16,599
26. Other financial liabilities
Miscellaneous other financial liabilities include various finan-
cial obligations such as liabilities from residual-value guaran-
The composition of other financial liabilities is shown in table tees, liabilities from wages and salaries, accrued interest
 D.64. expenses and deposits received.
Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss Further information on other financial liabilities is provided in
E
relate to derivative financial instruments, which are not used in Note 33. Financial instruments.
hedge accounting.
The increase in Other financial liabilities is primarily due to the
Group’s expansion of the business activities by using derivative
financial instruments used in hedge accounting such as inter-
est rate and currency swaps to hedge the Group’s exposure to
fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange movements.
D.64
Other financial liabilities
At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2021
Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total
In millions of euros
Derivative financial instruments used in hedge accounting 36 519 555 - 17 17
Financial liabilities recognized at fair value through profit or loss 13 - 13 3 - 3
Miscellaneous other financial liabilities 2,667 1,591 4,258 2,495 1,785 4,280
Liabilities from residual-value guarantees 756 1,374 2,130 874 1,574 2,448
Liabilities from wages and salaries 633 47 680 554 40 594
Accrued interest expenses 358 - 358 138 - 138
Deposits received 358 22 380 289 26 315
Other 562 148 710 640 145 785
2,716 2,110 4,826 2,498 1,802 4,300
27. Deferred income
The composition of deferred income is shown in table  D.65.
The decrease was mainly due to the deferral of sales revenue
received from sales with residual-value guarantees in compa-
nies of Industrial Business.
D.65
Deferred income
At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2021
Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total
In millions of euros
Deferral of sales revenue received from sales with
residual-value guarantees 560 977 1,537 623 1,085 1,708
Deferral of advance rental payments received from
operating lease arrangements 53 2 55 6 3 9
Other deferred income 42 21 63 35 23 58
655 1,000 1,655 664 1,111 1,775
28. Contract and refund liabilities
Table  D.66 shows the composition of contract and refund
liabilities.
Other contract liabilities and other refund liabilities primarily
include advanced payments and sales with a right of return,
respectively.
D.66
Contract and refund liabilities
At December 31,
2022 2021
In millions of euros
Contract liabilities 3,166 2,909
Service and maintenance contracts and
extended warranties 2,624 2,423
Other contract liabilities 542 486
Refund liabilities 645 510
Obligations from sales transactions 448 353
Other refund liabilities 197 157
Contract and refund liabilities 3,811 3,419
thereof non-current 1,940 1,785
thereof current 1,871 1,634
29. Other liabilities
Table  D.67 shows the composition of other liabilities.
D.67
Other liabilities
At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2021
Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total
In millions of euros
Income tax liabilities 173 37 210 243 15 258
Sales tax and other tax liabilities 466 - 466 352 - 352
Miscellaneous other liabilities 62 16 78 70 16 86
701 53 754 665 31 696
30. Consolidated Statement of
Cash flows from investing activities
Cash Flows Cash flows from investing activities included cash inflows and
outflows of €2,004 million (December 31, 2021: €0 million)
that were transferred to the Mercedes-Benz Group as consid-
Calculation of funds eration in connection with the acquired Financial Services
E
As of December 31, 2022, cash and cash equivalents included business and are referred to in Note 4. Business combina-
E
restricted funds of €102 million (December 31, 2021: €123 mil- tions. Furthermore, as explained in Note 33. Financial
lion). The restricted funds primarily relate to subsidiaries instruments, the short-term investments in mutual funds are
where exchange controls apply so that the Daimler Truck also reflected as cash flows from investing activities.
Group has restricted access to the funds.
In 2021, there was a cash inflow of €634 million in connection
The decrease in cash and cash equivalents by €1,300 million with the sale of 50.00% of the shares in cellcentric GmbH & Co.
resulted mainly from payments for the acquired Financial Ser- KG to the Volvo Group. In addition, the settlement of cash
vices business, repayments of loans to banks, cash outflows pooling accounts and loans to the Mercedes-Benz Group had a
from operating activities and short-term investments in mutual positive effect on cash flows from investing activities in the
funds. The decline was offset by borrowings on international prior year.
money and capital markets as well as inflows from factoring
activities.
D.68
Cash provided by operating activities Changes in other operating assets and liabilities
In 2022, the other non-cash expense and income reported in
2022 2021
the reconciliation of profit before income taxes to cash flow
In millions of euros
from operating activities included, in particular, the Group’s
share of earnings from equity-method companies and an
Provisions 137 304
impairment loss of the equity-method carrying amount of
Financial instruments -6 -30
Daimler KAMAZ Trucks Holding GmbH in connection with the
Miscellaneous other assets and liabilities 146 -392
Russia-Ukraine war. In the prior year, this line item was mainly
277 -118
impacted by the sale of 50.00% of the shares in cellcentric
GmbH & Co. KG and from the revaluation of the investment
held.
D.69
Before the acquisition of the Financial Services business, Cash flows included in cash provided by operating activities
pre-existing relationships existed between the Daimler Truck
2022 2021
Group and the acquired Financial Services business. Fulfill-
In millions of euros
ment of the pre-existing relationships at fair value led to cash
outflow of €171 million, and are included in cash flows from
Interest paid -207 -117
operating activities.
Interest received 195 66
Dividends received from
The cash flows from operating activities were also positively
equity-method investments 13 12
affected by trade receivables sold to external banks of
Dividends received from other shareholdings 7 18
€154 million (December 31, 2021: €30 million) and are referred
E
to in Note 20. Trade receivables.
Changes in other operating assets and liabilities are shown in
table  D.68.
Table  D.69 shows additional cash flows included in cash pro-
vided by operating activities.
31. Legal proceedings
Cash flows from financing activities
Cash flows from financing activities include cash flows from
hedging the currency risks of financial liabilities. The cash The subsidiaries of Daimler Truck Holding AG (especially
flows from financing activities included payments for the Daimler Truck AG) are confronted with various legal proceed-
reduction of outstanding leasing liabilities of €192 million ings, claims as well as governmental investigations and orders
(2021: €193 million). (legal proceedings) on a large number of topics. including vehi-
cle safety, dealer, supplier and other contractual relationships,
Table  D.70 includes changes in liabilities arising from financ- intellectual property rights (including but not limited to pat-
ing activities, divided into cash and non-cash components. In ent-infringement actions), warranty claims, as well as antitrust
the financial year 2022, the Daimler Truck Group took out debt matters (including actions for damages). If the outcome of
financing by issuing bonds primarily in the USA, the Nether- such legal proceedings is negative for the Daimler Truck Group
lands and Canada. The decline compared with the prior year or such legal proceedings are settled, the Group may be
was mainly due to the transfer of Financial Services and the required to pay substantial compensatory and punitive dam-
subsequent refinancing in 2021. ages or to undertake service actions, recall campaigns, mone-
tary penalties or other costly actions. Legal proceedings and
For further information on the effects of the transactions with related settlements may have an impact on the Group’s reputa-
the Mercedes-Benz Group in 2021, refer to table  D.71. tion.
In particular, vehicle manufacturers similar to the Group can
D.70 face regulatory investigations and fines for non-compliance
Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities1 with various governmental standards or rules as well as cus-
tomer claims and litigation arising from any defects and the
2022 2021
resulting consequences on product use or safety. Class action
In millions of euros
lawsuits, where available, and product liability, in particular,
can have substantial financial consequences.
Cashflows 3,409 6,415
Changes from the acquisition or disposal of share-
The Group generally records warranty provisions in its Finan-
holdings 599 -6
cial Statements based on past experience and known claims,
Changes in foreign exchange rates 592 818
but such provisions may not be adequate for any liability ulti-
Changes in market valuation and currency hedges
for financing liabilities -521 -49 mately incurred as a result of potential vehicle defects. In addi-
Fair value changes from derivatives 34 -2 tion, defective products, product liability claims, warranty
Non-cash effects of the release of allocated claims, product recalls and other similar issues could damage
financing liabilities of Financial Services - -9,767 the Group’s reputation.
Non-cash effects from the settlement of cash
pooling accounts and loans on a net basis - -1,386
Antitrust law proceedings (including actions for damages)
Other changes 162 119
Mercedes-Benz Group AG (formerly Daimler AG), as the former
1 Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities includes movements
parent entity of Daimler Truck AG, was subject to an antitrust
from hedging activities related to financing transactions. In 2022, these
amounted to €34 million increase (2021: €92 million increase). proceeding initiated by the European Commission. In July 2016,
the European Commission issued a settlement decision
against Daimler AG (now known as Mercedes-Benz Group AG)
and four other European truck manufacturers for their partici-
D.71 pation in anti-competitive behavior in violation of European
Transactions with the Mercedes-Benz Group antitrust rules with regard to pricing and passing on the costs
of compliance with strict emission rules for trucks. The Euro-
2021
pean Commission found that Daimler AG participated in the
In millions of euros
relevant arrangements from January17,1997 to January18,
2011. The individual fine imposed on Daimler AG by the Euro-
Capital and liquidity financing measures pursuant to
pean Commission’s settlement decision amounted to €1.09 bil-
Section 17.4 of the demerger agreement 5,380
lion and was paid in full in 2016.
Purchase price paid for Financial Services
entities and operations -11,157
Purchase price paid for Industrial Business entities and
operations -1,431
Other -56
-7,264
32. Contingent liabilities and
Following the settlement decision by the European Commis-
sion, legal actions, class actions and other forms of legal other financial obligations
redress for damages by direct and indirect truck customers
have been filed or initiated in several jurisdictions. Damage
claims could result in substantial liabilities for the Daimler Contingent liabilities
Truck Group as well as significant costs expended for defense As of December 31, 2022, the best-possible estimate of contin-
measures, which may have a material adverse effect on its gent liabilities was €632 million (December 31, 2021: €612 mil-
operations and financial resources. lion). The contingent liabilities mainly related to legal proceed-
ings.
In relation to the cartel infringement described above, most
substantial claims (including certain types of class actions or Other financial obligations
aggregator claims) are pending or have been initiated in Ger- At December 31, 2022, contractual obligations from the acqui-
many, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and Spain. Claims sition of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and
are also pending in certain other European countries and in equipment on operating leases amounted to €440 million
Israel (in a total of approximately 20 countries). (December 31, 2021: €290 million). At December 31, 2022
other financial obligations amounted to €404 million (Decem-
The Daimler Truck Group takes appropriate legal remedies to ber 31, 2021: €6 million) which includes capital commitments
defend itself. to the joint ventures Greenlane Infrastructure, LLC, cellcentric
GmbH & Co. KG and Commercial Vehicle Charging Europe BV.
In accordance with IAS 37 – Provisions, Contingent Liabilities
and Contingent Assets (paragraph 92), no further information In addition, the Daimler Truck Group had issued irrevocable
is disclosed with respect to whether, or to what extent, provi- loan commitments at December 31, 2022 and 2021. These
sions have been recognized and/or contingent liabilities have loan commitments had not been utilized as of that date. Fur-
been disclosed, so as not to prejudice the Group’s position. ther information on irrevocable loan commitments can be
E
found in Note 34. Management of financial risks.
Accounting estimates and management judgments relat-
ing to all legal proceedings Other financial obligations after the 2019 hive-down
The Group recognizes provisions in connection with pending or In 2019, Mercedes-Benz Group AG hived down parts of its
impending proceedings to the extent that a loss is probable business operations into Daimler Truck AG and
and can be reasonably estimated. Such provisions are recog- Mercedes-Benz AG. Pursuant to Section133 of the German
nized in the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements and Transformation Act (Umwandlungsgesetz or “UmwG”), all three
are based on estimates. If quantifiable, contingent liabilities in legal entities are jointly and severally liable for all liabilities of
connection with legal proceedings are disclosed in the Group’s Mercedes-Benz Group AG that existed as of the registration
Consolidated Financial Statements. Risks resulting from legal date of the hive-down into the commercial register.
proceedings sometimes cannot be assessed reliably or only to
a limited extent. Consequently, provisions recognized for some Daimler Truck AG will be liable for these liabilities that existed
legal proceedings may turn out to be insufficient once such before the spin-off taking effect for a period of five years,
proceedings have ended. The Group may also become liable starting as of the date of the announcement of the registration
for payments in legal proceedings for which no provisions were of the hive-down into the commercial register of
recognized and/or contingent liabilities were disclosed. Uncer- Mercedes-Benz Group AG at the District Court of Stuttgart. For
tainty exists with regard to the amounts or due dates of possi- pension obligations based on the German Company Pensions
ble cash outflow. Although the final result of any such proceed- Act (Betriebsrentengesetz), the aforementioned period is ten
ings could materially affect the Daimler Truck Group’s years.
operating results and cash flows for a particular reporting
period, the Daimler Truck Group believes that it should not Currently, Daimler Truck AG does not consider the obligations
exert a sustained influence on the Group’s profitability, liquid- resulting from the hive-down as a contingent liability and
ity and capital resources or financial position. expects any related cash outflows to be unlikely.
Other financial obligations after the 2021 spin-off
In December 2021, Mercedes-Benz Group AG spun off and
hived down its shares of Daimler Truck AG to Daimler Truck
Holding AG. Pursuant to Section133 UmwG, Daimler Truck
Holding AG is jointly and severally liable with Mercedes-Benz
Group AG for all liabilities of Mercedes-Benz Group AG that
existed as of the registration date of the spin-off and hive-
down in the commercial register including those from the 2019
hive-down.
33. Financial instruments
Daimler Truck Holding AG will be liable for those liabilities that
existed before the spin-off took effect for a period of five years,
starting as of the date of the announcement of the registration Carrying amounts and fair values of financial instruments
of the spin-off and hive-down into the commercial register of Table  D.72 shows the carrying amounts and fair values for
Mercedes-Benz Group AG. For pension obligations based on the respective classes of the Group’s financial instruments,
the German Company Pensions Act (Betriebsrentengesetz), excluding equity instruments measured at amortized cost and
the aforementioned period is ten years. not in the scope of IFRS 9, and lease liabilities.
Currently, Daimler Truck Holding AG does not consider the The fair value of a financial instrument is the price that would
obligations resulting from the spin-off to be a contingent liabil- be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
ity and expects any related cash outflows to be unlikely. Pen- orderly transaction between market participants at the mea-
sion commitments are covered by planned assets (see surement date. Given the varying influencing factors, the
E
Note 23. Pensions and similar obligations) and are not reported fair values can only be viewed as indicators of the
included in the potential obligations. prices that may actually be achieved on the market.
The potential obligations for the Daimler Truck Group resulting The fair values of financial instruments were calculated on the
from Section133 UmwG due to the 2019 hive-down and the basis of market information available on the balance sheet
2021 spin-off amount to €27,463 million as of December 31, date. The following methods and premises were used:
2022, with amounts due in 2023: €7,130 million (December 31,
2021: €54,138 million, thereafter due in 2022: €30,303 million).
D.72
Carrying amounts and fair values of financial instruments
At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2021
Carrying Carrying
amount Fair value amount Fair value
In millions of euros
Financial assets
Receivables from financial services 22,425 22,129 16,098 16,173
Trade receivables 4,682 4,682 3,962 3,962
Cash and cash equivalents 5,944 5,944 7,244 7,244
Marketable debt securities and similar investments 1,145 1,145 139 139
Recognized at fair value through other comprehensive income 351 351 116 116
Recognized at fair value through profit or loss 783 783 14 14
Measured at amortized cost 11 11 9 9
Other financial assets
Equity instruments and debt instruments 292 292 329 329
Recognized at fair value through other comprehensive income 96 96 85 85
Recognized at fair value through profit or loss 196 196 244 244
Other financial assets recognized at fair value through profit or loss 29 29 5 5
Derivative financial instruments used in hedge accounting 197 197 63 63
Other financial receivables and miscellaneous other financial assets 818 818 810 810
35,532 35,236 28,650 28,725
Financial liabilities
Financing liabilities 19,656 20,322 15,364 15,445
Trade payables 5,317 5,317 4,359 4,359
Other financial liabilities
Financial liabilities recognized at fair value through profit or loss 13 13 3 3
Derivative financial instruments used in hedge accounting 555 555 17 17
Miscellaneous other financial liabilities 4,258 4,258 4,280 4,280
Contract and refund liabilities
Obligations from sales transactions 448 448 353 353
30,247 30,913 24,376 24,457
Receivables from financial services Other financial assets recognized at fair value through profit or
The fair values of receivables from financial services with vari- loss include derivative financial instruments not used in hedge
able interest rates are estimated to be equal to the respective accounting. These financial instruments as well as the deriva-
carrying amounts, because the agreed-upon interest rates and tive financial instruments used in hedge accounting comprise:
those available in the market do not significantly differ. The fair
values of receivables from financial services with fixed interest – Derivative currency hedging contracts; the fair values of
rates are determined on the basis of discounted expected cross-currency interest rate swaps are determined on the
future cash flows. Discounting is based on the current interest basis of the discounted estimated future cash flows (taking
rates at which similar loans with identical terms could have account of credit premiums and default risks) using market
been obtained at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. interest rates appropriate to the remaining terms of the
financial instruments. The valuation of currency forwards is
Trade receivables and cash and cash equivalents based on market quotes of forward curves.
Due to the short terms of these financial instruments and the
fundamentally lower credit risk, it is assumed that their fair – Derivative interest rate hedging contracts; the fair values of
values are equal to the carrying amounts. interest rate hedging instruments (e.g., interest rate swaps)
are calculated on the basis of the discounted estimated
Marketable debt securities and similar investments and future cash flows (taking account of credit premiums and
Other financial assets default risks) using market interest rates appropriate to the
Marketable debt securities are recognized at fair value through remaining terms of the financial instruments.
other comprehensive income or fair value through profit or
loss. Similar investments are measured at amortized cost and Other financial receivables and miscellaneous other financial
are not included in the measurement hierarchy, as their carry- assets are carried at amortized cost. Because of the predomi-
ing amounts are a reasonable approximation of fair value due nantly short maturities and the fundamentally lower credit risk
to the short terms of these financial instruments and the fun- of these financial instruments, it is assumed that the fair val-
damentally low credit risk. Debt instruments recognized at fair ues approximate the carrying amounts.
value through profit or loss are included in table  D.72 com-
prise exclusively of money market funds. Financing liabilities
The fair values of loans, commercial paper, notes/bonds and
Equity instruments are recognized at fair value through other liabilities from ABS transactions are calculated as present val-
comprehensive income or at fair value through profit or loss. ues of the estimated future cash flows (taking account of
credit premiums and credit risks). Market interest rates for the
Equity instruments recognized through other comprehensive appropriate terms are used for discounting. Financing liabili-
income are included in table  D.72 and comprise several ties exclude lease liabilities.
investments not material on an individual basis. The Daimler
Truck Group does not generally intend to sell its equity instru- Financial liabilities carried at amortized cost include non-
ments which are presented at December 31, 2022. Equity controlling interests in Daimler Truck Grundstücksverwaltung
instruments measured at amortized cost and not in the scope GmbH & Co. OHGs (1-4) and in EvoBus OHG are held by
of IFRS 9 have been excluded. Mercedes-Benz Grund Services GmbH. These non-controlling
interests are classified as puttable instruments because the
Marketable debt securities and equity instruments recognized non-controlling shareholder, Mercedes-Benz Grund Services
E
at fair value were measured using quoted market prices at the GmbH (refer to Note 25. Financing liabilities), has the
end of the reporting period. If quoted market prices are not right to terminate and return its shareholding in exchange for a
available for these debt and equity instruments, fair value mea- settlement. Therefore, the non-controlling interests are
surement is based on inputs that are either directly or indi- accounted for as financial liabilities according to IAS 32. The
rectly observable in active markets. Fair values are calculated liabilities are measured at the present value of the redemption
using recognized financial valuation models such as dis- amount in the case of termination of Mercedes-Benz Grund
counted cash flow models or multiples. Services GmbH’s shareholdings, with fair values approximately
equal to the carrying amounts.
Trade payables Contract and refund liabilities
Due to the short maturities of these financial instruments, it is Contract and refund liabilities include obligations from sales
assumed that their fair values are equal to their carrying transactions that qualify as financial instruments. Obligations
amounts. from sales transactions should generally be regarded as short
term. Due to the short maturities of these financial instru-
At December 31, 2022, Trade payables of €260 million are sub- ments, it is assumed that their fair values are equal to their
ject to reverse factoring arrangements (December 31, 2021: carrying amounts.
€163 million).
Offsetting of financial instruments
Other financial liabilities Starting on December 1, 2021 the Daimler Truck Group con-
Financial liabilities recognized at fair value through profit or loss cludes derivative transactions in accordance with the master
comprise derivative financial instruments not used in hedge netting arrangements (framework agreement) of the Interna-
accounting. For information regarding these financial instru- tional Swaps and Derivatives Association (“ISDA”) and compa-
ments as well as derivative financial instruments used in hedge rable national framework agreements. However, these arrange-
accounting, refer to the notes above under marketable debt ments do not meet the criteria for netting in the Consolidated
securities and similar investments, other financial assets. Statement of Financial Position, as they allow netting only in
the case of future events such as default or insolvency on the
Miscellaneous other financial liabilities are carried at amortized part of the Group or the counterparty.
cost. Because of the predominantly short maturities of these
financial instruments, it is assumed that the fair values approx- Table  D.73 shows the carrying amounts of the derivative
imate the carrying amounts. financial instruments subject to the described arrangements
as well as the possible financial effects of netting in accor-
dance with the master netting arrangements.
D.73
Disclosure for recognized financial instruments that are subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement
At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2021
Gross and net Gross and net
amounts of finan- amounts of finan-
cial instruments cial instruments
in the Consoli- Amounts in the Consoli- Amounts
dated Statement subject to a dated Statement subject to a
of Financial master netting Net of Financial master netting Net
Position arrangement amounts Position arrangement amounts
In millions of euros
Other financial assets1 226 -123 103 63 -4 59
Other financial liabilities2 568 -123 445 15 -4 11
1 The other financial assets which are subject to a master netting arrangement comprise derivative financial instruments that are included in hedge account-
ing and financial assets recognized at fair value through profit or loss (refer to Note 17. Other financial assets).
2 The other financial liabilities which are subject to a master netting arrangement comprise derivative financial instruments that are included in hedge
accounting and financial liabilities recognized at fair value through profit or loss (refer to Note 26. Other financial liabilities).
Measurement hierarchy At the end of each reporting period, the Group reviews the
Table  D.74 provides an overview of the classification into necessity for reclassification between the fair-value hierarchies.
measurement hierarchies of financial assets and liabilities
recognized at fair value (according to IFRS13 – Fair value mea- For the determination of the credit risk from derivative finan-
surement). cial instruments which are allocated to Level 2 measurement
hierarchy, portfolios are managed on the basis of net exposure.
D.74
Measurement hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities recognized at fair value
At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2021
Total Level 11 Level 22 Level 33 Total Level 11 Level 22 Level 33
In millions of euros
Financial assets recognized at fair value
Marketable debt securities 1,134 748 386 - 130 33 96 1
Recognized at fair value through other
comprehensive income 351 44 307 - 116 33 83 -
Recognized at fair value through profit or loss 783 704 79 - 14 - 13 1
Equity instruments and debt instruments 292 171 22 99 329 185 20 124
Recognized at fair value through other
comprehensive income 96 88 - 8 85 76 - 9
Recognized at fair value through profit or loss 196 83 22 91 244 109 20 115
Other financial assets recognized at fair value
through profit or loss 29 - 29 - 5 - 5 -
Derivative financial instruments used in hedge accounting 197 - 197 - 63 - 63 -
1,652 919 634 99 527 218 184 125
Financial liabilities recognized at fair value
Financial liabilities recognized at fair value
through profit or loss 13 - 13 - 3 - 3 -
Derivative financial instruments used in hedge accounting 555 - 555 - 17 - 17 -
568 - 568 - 20 - 20 -
1 Fair value measurement is based on quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for these or identical assets or liabilities.
2 Fair value measurement is based on inputs that are observable on active markets either directly (i.e., as prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived from prices).
3 Fair value measurement based on inputs for which no observable market data is available.
Table  D.75 shows to which measurement hierarchies
(according to IFRS13) the fair values of the financial assets and
liabilities are classified which are not recognized at fair value in
the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
D.75
Measurement hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities not recognized at fair value
At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2021
Total Level 1¹ Level 2² Level 3³ Total Level 1¹ Level 2² Level 3³
In millions of euros
Fair values of financial assets measured at cost
Receivables from financial services 22,129 - 22,129 - 16,173 - 16,173 -
Fair values of financial liabilities measured at cost
Financing liabilities 20,131 8,822 11,309 - 15,236 6,712 8,524 -
thereof bonds 11,134 8,822 2,312 - 7,377 6,712 665 -
thereof liabilities from ABS transactions 1,018 - 1,018 - 755 - 755 -
thereof other financing liabilities 7,978 - 7,978 - 7,104 - 7,104 -
Miscellaneous other financial liabilities 4,258 - 4,156 102 4,280 - 4,200 80
1 Fair value measurement is based on quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for these or identical assets or liabilities.
2 Fair value measurement is based on inputs that are observable on active markets either directly (i.e., as listed prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived from prices).
3 Fair value measurement based on inputs for which no observable market data is available.
Measurement categories Net gains or losses
The carrying amounts of financial instruments according to Table  D.77 shows the net gains/losses on financial instru-
measurement categories are shown in table  D.76. ments included in the Consolidated Statement of Income
(excluding derivative financial instruments used in hedge
Table  D.76 does not include the carrying amounts of deriva- accounting).
tive financial instruments used in hedge accounting as these
financial instruments are not assigned to a measurement cate- Net gains/losses on equity and debt instruments recognized at
gory. fair value through profit or loss primarily comprise gains and
losses attributable to changes in the fair values of these instru-
ments.
D.76
Carrying amounts of financial instruments according to Net gains/losses on other financial assets and liabilities recog-
measurement categories nized at fair value through profit or loss comprise gains and
losses attributable to changes in their fair values.
At December 31,
2022 2021
Net gains/losses on equity instruments recognized at fair
In millions of euros
value through other comprehensive income primarily comprise
dividend payments.
Assets
Financial assets measured
at (amortized) cost 29,838 25,757 Net gains/losses on other financial assets recognized at fair
Receivables from financial services1 18,383 13,732 value through other comprehensive income are primarily
Trade receivables 4,682 3,962 attributable to the effects of currency translation.
Cash and cash equivalents 5,944 7,244
Marketable debt securities Net gains/losses on financial assets measured at (amortized)
and similar investments 11 9 cost (excluding the interest income/expense shown below) pri-
Other receivables and miscellaneous marily comprise impairment losses (including reversals of
other financial assets 818 810
impairment losses) of €284 million (2021: €104 million) that
Financial assets recognized at fair value
are charged to cost of sales, selling expenses and other finan-
through other comprehensive income 447 201
cial income/expense, net. Foreign exchange gains and losses
Marketable debt securities
and similar investments 351 116 are also included.
Equity and debt instruments 96 85
Financial assets recognized at fair value Net gains/losses on financial liabilities measured at (amor-
through profit or loss 1,008 263 tized) cost (excluding the interest income/expense shown
Marketable debt securities below) primarily comprise the effects of currency translation.
and similar investments 783 14
Equity and debt instruments 196 244
Other financial assets recognized at
fair value through profit or loss2 29 5 D.77
Net gains/losses
Liabilities 2022 2021
Financial liabilities In millions of euros
measured at (amortized) cost 29,662 24,318
Trade payables 5,317 4,359
Equity and debt instruments recognized at
Financing liabilities3 19,656 15,364 fair value through profit or loss -64 28
Miscellaneous other financial liabilities4 4,241 4,242 Other financial assets and financial liabilities
Obligations from sales transactions 448 353 recognized at fair value through profit or loss1 31 -32
Financial liabilities recognized at fair value Equity instruments recognized at fair value
through profit or loss2 13 3 through other comprehensive income 4 -
1 Excluding lease receivables of €4,042 million (December 31, 2021: Other financial assets recognized at fair value
€2,366 million) as these are not assigned to any measurement c ategory. through other comprehensive income -1 -
2 Financial instruments classified as held for trading purposes. These items Financial assets measured at (amortized) cost -251 -38
comprise financial instruments that are not used in hedge accounting.
Financial liabilities measured
3 Excluding liabilities from lease transactions of €1,183 million (December
31, 2021: €1,235 million) as these are not assigned to any measurement at (amortized) cost -41 -89
category. 1 Financial instruments classified as held for trading; these amounts relate
4 Excluding financial guarantees of €17 million (December 31, 2021: to derivate financial instruments not used in hedge accounting.
€38 million) as these are not assigned to any measurement category.
Total interest income and total interest expense Information on derivative financial instruments
Total interest income and total interest expense for financial Use of derivatives
assets or financial liabilities that are not recognized at fair The Daimler Truck Group uses derivative financial instruments
value through profit or loss are shown in table  D.78. exclusively for hedging financial risks that arise from its oper-
ating or financing activities or from its liquidity management.
Qualitative descriptions of accounting for and presentation of These are interest rate risks and currency risks, which have
financial instruments (including derivative financial instru- been defined as risk categories. For these hedging purposes,
E
ments) can be found in Note1. General information and the Daimler Truck Group mainly uses currency forward trans-
significant accounting policies). actions, cross-currency interest rate swaps and interest rate
swaps.
D.78 Table  D.79 shows the amounts for the transactions desig-
Total interest income and total interest expense nated as hedging instruments.
2022 2021
In millions of euros
Total interest income 1,435 933
thereof from financial assets and liabilities
measured at (amortized) costs 1,378 929
thereof from financial assets
recognized at fair value through
other comprehensive income 57 4
Total interest expense -840 -453
thereof from financial assets and liabilities
measured at (amortized) costs -840 -453
D.79
Amounts for the transactions designated as hedging instruments
Foreign currency risk Interest rate risk
Cash flow hedges1 Cash flow hedges2 Fair value hedges2
In millions of euros
At December 31, 2022
Carrying amount of the hedging instruments
Other financial assets current 35 25 -
Other financial assets non-current 32 105 -
Other financial liabilities current 28 - 8
Other financial liabilities non-current 4 1 515
Fair value changes3 82 102 -473
At December 31, 2021
Carrying amount of the hedging instruments
Other financial assets current 5 7 24
Other financial assets non-current 1 15 5
Other financial liabilities current - 7 1
Other financial liabilities non-current - - 16
Fair value changes3 -60 41 -11
1 Includes the following hedging instrument: currency forwards, currency options, and currency swaps.
2 Includes the following hedging instrument: interest rate swaps and cross-currency interest rate swaps.
3 Gains and losses from hedging instruments used for recognizing hedge ineffectiveness.
Fair value hedges D.80
The Daimler Truck Group uses fair value hedges primarily for Fair value hedges
hedging interest rate risks.
At December 31,
2022 2021
The amounts of the items hedged with fair value hedges are
Interest rate risk
included in table  D.80.
In millions of euros
The amounts relating to hedge ineffectiveness for items
designated as fair value hedges are shown in table  D.81.
Carrying amounts of the hedged items
Financing liabilities current 260 221
Cash flow hedges
Financing liabilities non-current 5,282 4,095
The Daimler Truck Group designates cash flow hedges for
thereof hedge adjustments
hedging currency risks and interest rate risks.
Financing liabilities current -9 -1
Financing liabilities non-current -515 -17
The amounts related to items designated as cash flow hedges
Fair value changes of the hedged items1 471 -2
are shown in table  D.82.
Accumulated amount of hedge adjustments from
inactive hedges remaining in the Consolidated
The gains and losses from cash flow hedges as well as the Statement of Financial Position 5 -
amounts relating to hedge ineffectiveness are included in table 1 Cumulative expenses or income recognized in the carrying amount of the
 D.83. underlying transactions.
D.81
Ineffectiveness of fair value hedges
2022 2021
Interest rate risk
In millions of euros
Interest expense -2 -13
D.82
Cash flow hedges
At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2021
Foreign Foreign
currency Interest currency Interest
risk rate risk risk rate risk
In millions of euros
Fair value changes of
the hedged items1 -81 -102 60 -41
Balance of the
reserves for derivative
financial instruments
(before taxes)
Continuing hedges 96 130 3 22
D iscontinued/
terminated hedges -23 - 3 -
1 Fair value changes of the hedged items used for recognizing hedge
i neffectiveness.
D.83
Gains and losses on cash flow hedges1
Foreign currency risk Interest rate risk
In millions of euros
Other
financial
Line item in the Consolidated Statement of Income in which the Cost of income/ Cost of Interest
ineffectiveness and the reclassifications are included Revenue sales expense, net sales expense
2022
Gains and losses recognized in other comprehensive income 38 44 - -13 115
Reclassification of hedge effectiveness from other
comprehensive income to the Consolidated Statement of Income
For hedges for which the hedged future cash
flows are no longer expected to occur - -1 - - -
For hedges that have been transferred because the hedged
item has affected profit or loss -15 - - - 5
2021
Gains and losses recognized in other comprehensive income -40 -21 - 22 19
Reclassification of hedge effectiveness from other
comprehensive income to the Consolidated Statement of Income
For hedges for which the hedged future cash
flows are no longer expected to occur - - - - 10
For hedges that have been transferred because the hedged
item has affected profit or loss 13 - - - -4
1 In 2022 and 2021, there were no hedge ineffectiveness recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Table  D.84 shows the reconciliation of the reserves for The maturities of the derivative financial instruments generally
derivative financial instruments. correspond with those of the underlying transactions. The
realization of the hedged item is expected to correspond with
the maturity ranges of the hedging transactions shown in table
D.84  D.86.
Reconciliation of reserves for derivative financial instruments
At December 31, 2022, the Daimler Truck Group held deriva-
tive financial instruments with a maximum term of109 months
(December 31, 2021:121 months) in the portfolio in order to
In millions of euros 2022 2021
hedge currency risks arising from future operating cash flows.
Balance at January 1 13 28
Nominal values of derivative financial instruments
Changes in fair values (before taxes) 136 -28
Table  D.86 shows the nominal amounts of derivative finan-
Foreign currency risk 34 -69
cial instruments used by the Group for the purpose of hedging
Interest rate risk 102 41
currency risks, interest rate risks and commodity price risks
Reclassification to profit or loss
that arise from the Daimler Truck Group’s operating activities
(before taxes) -2 19
and/or financing activities.
Foreign currency risk -6 22
Interest rate risk 4 -3
The average prices for hedging instruments classified by risk
Reclassification to cost of acquisition of
non-financial assets (before taxes) 8 -19 categories for the main risks are included in table  D.85.
Foreign currency risk – procurement 8 -13
Commodity price risk – inventory purchases - -6 Most of the transactions for which the effects from the mea-
Other - 14 surement of the hedging instrument and the underlying trans-
Taxes on changes in fair values action to a large extent offset each other in the Consolidated
and reclassifications -33 -1 Statement of Income do not classify for hedge accounting.
Balance at December 31 122 13
Even if derivative financial instruments do not or no longer
qualify for hedge accounting, these instruments still serve to
The reserves for derivative financial instruments include hedge financial risks from business operations. A hedging
reserves for hedge costs of insignificant amounts. instrument is terminated when the hedged transaction no lon-
ger exists or is no longer expected to occur.
Further information on the hedging of currency and interest
E
rate risks can be found in Note 34. Management of finan-
cial risks.
D.85
Average prices of hedging instruments for the major risks
At December 31,
2022 2021
Foreign currency risk
AUD per € 1.53 -
GBP per € 0.87 -
USD per € 1.08 1.14
Interest rate risk
Fair value hedges
Average interest rate – BRL -12.83% -8.11%
Average interest rate – CAD -2.17% 1.22%
Average interest rate - EUR -1.45% -
Average interest rate – MXN -2.71% 2.34%
Average interest rate – USD -0.77% 0.71%
Cash flow hedges
Average interest rate – BRL 1.25& 1.07%
Average interest rate – CAD 1.69% -0.68%
Average interest rate - EUR 2.03% -
Average interest rate – MXN 1.54% -1.01%
Average interest rate – USD 0.63% -0.21%
D.86
Nominal amounts of derivative financial instruments
At December 31, 2022 At December 31, 2021
Maturity of nominal amounts Maturity of nominal amounts
<1 year 1-5 years >5 years Total <1 year 1-5 years >5 years Total
In millions of euros
Foreign currency risk 3,582 1,075 - 4,657 1,224 188 - 1,412
Non-hedge accounting derivatives 1,537 96 - 1,633 377 - - 377
Cash flow hedges 2,045 979 - 3,024 847 188 - 1,035
Interest rate risk2 1,886 7,613 1,406 10,905 2,351 4,814 1,324 8,489
Non-hedge accounting derivatives2 - - - - 1,510 1,829 - 3,339
Fair value hedges2 276 4,318 1,406 6,000 373 2,324 1,324 4,021
thereof major derivative financial instruments
affected by the reform of the interest rate benchmark1
in USD - - - - 265 265 - 530
Cash flow hedges2 1,610 3,295 - 4,905 468 661 - 1,129
thereof major derivative financial instruments
affected by the reform of the interest rate benchmark1
in USD2 189 - - 189 44 384 - 428
1 The volumes of risk exposure in cash flow hedges directly affected by the reform of the interest rate benchmark are generally in line with the nominal
volumes of the hedging instruments because of the basic hedging ratio of 1. Further information on the reform of the interest rate benchmark is provided in
Note 34. Management of financial risks.
2 Prior-year balances have been restated.
34. Management of financial risks
The market sensitive instruments, including equity and debt
securities, that the plan assets hold to finance pension and
General information on financial risks other post-employment benefits are not included in the follow-
As a result of its businesses and the global nature of its opera- ing quantitative and qualitative analysis. For further informa-
tions, the Daimler Truck Group is exposed to market risks from tion on pension and other post-employment benefit related lia-
E
changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, bilities, refer to Note 23. Pensions and similar obligations.
while commodity price risks arise from procurement. A share
price risk results from investments in listed companies. In Credit risk
addition, the Daimler Truck Group is exposed to credit risks Credit risk is the risk of economic loss arising from a counter-
from its leasing and financing activities and from its other busi- party’s failure to repay or service debt in accordance with the
ness operations (trade receivables). Furthermore, the Daimler contractual terms. Credit risk encompasses both the direct
Truck Group is exposed to liquidity and country risks relating to risk of default and the risk of a deterioration of creditworthi-
its credit and market risks or a deterioration of its business ness as well as concentration risks.
operations or financial market disturbances. If these financial
risks materialize, they could adversely affect the Daimler Truck The maximum risk positions of financial assets which are gen-
Group’s profitability, liquidity and capital resources, and finan- erally subject to credit risk are equal to their carrying amounts
cial position. at the balance sheet date (without consideration of collateral,
if available). There is also a risk of default from irrevocable
The Daimler Truck Group has established internal policies for loan commitments which had not been utilized as of that date,
risk controlling procedures and for the use of financial instru- as well as from financial guarantees. The maximum risk posi-
ments, including a clear segregation of duties with regard to tion in these cases is equal to the expected future cash out-
financial activities, settlement, accounting and the related con- flows. Table  D.87 shows the maximum risk positions at the
trolling. The guidelines upon which the Daimler Truck Group’s reporting date.
risk management processes for financial risks are based are
designed to identify and analyze these risks throughout the
Daimler Truck Group, to set appropriate risk limits and con- D.87
trols, and to monitor the risks by means of reliable and up-to- Maximum risk positions of financial assets,
date administrative and information systems. The guidelines irrevocable loan commitments and financial guarantees
and systems are regularly reviewed and adjusted to changes in
At December 31,
markets and products.
2022 2021
Maximum Maximum
The Daimler Truck Group manages and monitors these risks risk risk
primarily through its operating and financing activities and, if Note position position
required, through the use of derivative financial instruments. In millions of euros
The Daimler Truck Group uses derivative financial instruments
exclusively for hedging financial risks that arise from its busi- Liquid assets 7,089 7,383
ness operations or refinancing activities or liquidity manage- Receivables from financial services 15 22,425 16,098
ment. If not used, the Daimler Truck Group would be exposed Trade receivables 20 4,682 3,962
to higher financial risks. Daimler Truck AG hedges currency Derivative financial instruments used
in hedge accounting (assets only) 17 197 63
risks through forward exchange contracts. Long-term supply
Derivative financial instruments not
contracts exist for the hedging of raw materials, so it is not
used in hedge accounting
necessary to build up further hedges. Additional information (assets only) 17 29 5
on financial instruments and especially on the volumes of the Other financial receivables and
derivative financial instruments used is included in miscellaneous other financial assets 17 818 810
E Note 33. Financial instruments. The Daimler Truck Group Irrevocable loan commitments 163 114
regularly evaluates its financial risks with due consideration of Financial guarantees 300 304
changes in key economic indicators and up-to-date market
information for the Daimler Truck Group.
Liquid assets With respect to its financing and lease activities, the Daimler
Liquid assets consist of cash and cash equivalents and market- Truck Group holds collateral for customer transactions limiting
able debt securities and similar investments. With the invest- actual credit risk through its fair value. The value of collateral
ment of liquid assets, banks and issuers of securities are generally depends on the amount of the financed assets. The
selected very carefully and diversified in accordance with a financed vehicles usually serve as collateral. Furthermore,
limit system. Liquid assets are primarily held by financial insti- Financial Services limits credit risk from financing and lease
tutions with high credit ratings within and outside Europe and, activities, for example through advance payments from cus-
since October 2022, also in money market funds. In connec- tomers.
tion with investment decisions, priority is placed on the bor-
rower’s very high creditworthiness and on balanced risk diver- For the assessment of the default risk of retail and small busi-
sification. The limits and their utilizations are reassessed ness customers, scoring systems are applied to evaluate their
continuously. In this assessment, the Daimler Truck Group also creditworthiness. Corporate customers are evaluated using
considers the credit risk assessment of its counterparties by internal rating instruments. Both evaluation processes use
the capital markets. In line with the Daimler Truck Group’s risk external credit bureau data if available. The scoring and rating
policy, most liquid assets are held in investments with an results as well as the availability of security and other risk miti-
external investment grade rating. Liquid assets are thus not gation instruments, such as advance payments, guarantees
subject to a material credit risk and are allocated to Stage1 of and, to a lower extent, residual debt insurances, are essential
the impairment model, which is based on expected credit risk. elements for credit decisions.
Receivables from financial services If, in connection with contracts, a deterioration of payment
The Daimler Truck Group’s financing and leasing activities are behavior or other causes of a credit risk are recognized, collec-
primarily focused on supporting the sales of the Daimler Truck tion procedures are initiated by claims management to obtain
Group’s automotive products. As a consequence of these the overdue payments from the customer, to take possession
activities, the Daimler Truck Group is exposed to credit risk, of the asset financed or leased or, alternatively, to renegotiate
which is monitored and managed based on defined standards, the impaired contract. Restructuring policies and practices are
guidelines and procedures. The Daimler Truck Group manages based on the indicators or criteria which, in the judgment of
its credit risk irrespective of whether it is related to a financing local management, indicate that repayment will probably con-
contract or to an operating lease or a finance lease contract. tinue and that the total proceeds expected to be derived from
For this reason, statements concerning the credit risk of Finan- the renegotiated contract exceed the expected proceeds to be
cial Services refer to the entire financing and leasing business, derived from repossession and remarketing.
unless otherwise specified.
The situation regarding the COVID-19 pandemic normalized in
Exposure to credit risk from financing and lease activities is 2022. The last government support programs have ended and
monitored based on the portfolio subject to credit risk. The the total volume of modifications has continued to decline. The
portfolio subject to credit risk consists of wholesale and retail remaining part of the additional loss allowance to cover the
receivables from financial services and the portion of the oper- anticipated credit losses as a result of the pandemic was
ating lease portfolio that is subject to credit risk. Receivables reversed, as this is now covered by the future expectation of
from financial services comprise claims arising from finance the standard process.
lease contracts and repayment claims from financing loans.
The operating lease portfolio is reported under equipment on Although the importance of the COVID-19 pandemic abated,
operating leases in the Consolidated Financial Statements. credit risk remained the focus for the Financial Services seg-
Overdue lease payments from operating lease contracts are ment due to the outbreak of the Russia-Ukraine war. Future
recognized in receivables from financial services. expectations were adjusted to take into account the deterio-
rated macroeconomic outlook in terms of rising inflation. In
Since December 2021, the Financial Services segment of the addition, the credit portfolios related to the Phase 2 transac-
Daimler Truck Group has policies setting the framework for tions were assimilated into the Group.
effective risk management at a global as well as a local level.
In particular, these rules deal with minimum requirements for
all risk-relevant credit processes, the definition of financing
products offered, the evaluation of customer quality, requests
for collateral and the treatment of unsecured loans and
non-performing claims. The limitation of concentration risks is
implemented primarily by means of global limits, which refer to
single customer exposures. As of December 31, 2022, expo-
sure to the biggest15 customers did not exceed19% of the
total portfolio (December 31, 2021: 20%).
The value adjustment ratio remains at a stable level due to the Further information on trade receivables and the status of loss
E
counteracting effects of the loss of the significance of the pan- allowances refer to Note 20. Trade receivables.
demic with a favorable portfolio performance versus the dete-
riorated macroeconomic outlook. Derivative financial instruments
The Daimler Truck Group uses derivative financial instruments
For information on credit risks included in receivables from exclusively for hedging financial risks that arise from its oper-
E
financial services, refer to Note15. Receivables from ating activities, financing activities or liquidity management.
financial services. Information on the measurement of The Daimler Truck Group manages its credit risk exposure in
E
expected credit losses is provided in Note1. General infor- connection with derivative financial instruments through a limit
mation and significant accounting policies. system, which is based on the review of each counterparty’s
financial strength. This system limits and diversifies the credit
Trade receivables risk. As a result, the Daimler Truck Group is exposed to credit
Trade receivables are mostly receivables from worldwide sales risk only to a small extent with respect to its derivative finan-
of vehicles and spare parts. The credit risk from trade receiv- cial instruments. Most derivatives within the Daimler Truck
ables encompasses the default risk of customers, e.g., dealers Group are contracted with counterparties which have an exter-
and general distribution companies, as well as other corporate nal investment grade rating.
and private customers. In order to identify credit risks, the
Daimler Truck Group assesses the creditworthiness of custom- Other receivables and financial assets
ers. The Daimler Truck Group manages its credit risk from With respect to other receivables and financial assets included
trade receivables using appropriate IT applications and data- in other financial assets in 2022 and 2021, the Daimler Truck
bases on the basis of internal policies which have to be fol- Group is exposed to credit risk only to a small extent.
lowed globally.
Irrevocable loan commitments
A significant proportion of the trade receivables from each The Financial Services segment in particular is exposed to
country’s domestic business is secured by various coun- credit risk from irrevocable loan commitments to end custom-
try-specific types of collateral. This collateral includes condi- ers and retailers. At December 31, 2022, irrevocable loan com-
tional sales, guarantees and sureties, as well as mortgages and mitments amounted to €163 million (December 31, 2021:
advance payments from customers. €114 million). These loan commitments had a maturity of less
than one year and are not subject to a material credit risk.
For trade receivables from the export business, the Daimler
Truck Group also evaluates its customers’ creditworthiness by Financial guarantees
means of an internal rating process with consideration of the The maximum potential payment obligations resulting from
respective country risk. In this context, the year-end financial financial guarantees as of December 31, 2022 amounted to
statements and other relevant information on the general dis- €300 million (December 31, 2021: €304 million) and at Decem-
tribution companies, such as payment history, are used and ber 31, 2022 included liabilities of €17 million (December 31,
assessed. 2021: €38 million). Financial guarantees principally represent
contractual arrangements. These guarantees generally provide
Depending on the customers’ creditworthiness, the Daimler that in the event of default or non-payment by the primary
Truck Group usually establishes credit limits and limits credit debtor, the Daimler Truck Group will be required to settle such
risks with the following types of collateral: financial obligations, generally up to a contractually agreed
amount.
– c redit insurances,
– first-class bank guarantees and
– letters of credit.
These procedures are defined in the export credit guidelines,
which have Group-wide validity.
For loss allowance of trade receivables, a simplified approach
is applied, whereby these receivables are allocated to stage 2.
Credit losses until maturity for these trade receivables are
recognized upon initial recognition.
Liquidity risk In general, the Daimler Truck Group makes use of a broad
Liquidity risk comprises the risk that a company cannot meet spectrum of financial instruments to cover its funding require-
its financial obligations in full. The Daimler Truck Group man- ments. Depending on funding requirements and market condi-
ages its liquidity by holding adequate volumes of liquid assets tions, the Daimler Truck Group issues debt obligations and
and by maintaining syndicated credit facilities in addition to financial instruments secured by receivables in various curren-
the cash inflows generated by its business operations. Addi- cies. On October 28, 2021, the Daimler Truck Group was
tionally, the option of securitizing receivables (“ABS trans- issued with a long-term issuer credit rating of A3 by Moody’s
actions”) also reduces the Group’s liquidity risk. Liquid assets Investor Service and BBB+ by S&P Global Ratings; nonetheless,
comprise cash and cash equivalents and marketable debt potential downgrades of the Daimler Truck Group’s credit rat-
securities and similar investments. The Daimler Truck Group ings could have a negative impact on the Group’s financing. In
can dispose of these liquid assets at short notice. August 2021, a credit facility in the amount of €13 billion
(bridge facility) was agreed upon by the Daimler Truck Group
The funds raised are used to finance working capital and capi- with an international consortium of banks. This credit facility
tal expenditure as well as the cash needs of the leasing and was contractually reduced following the bond issuances by
financing business and unexpected liquidity needs. In accor- financing companies in the USA, Canada and the Netherlands
dance with internal guidelines, the refinancing of the leasing and fully repaid and terminated at the end of September 2022.
and financing business is generally carried out with matching
maturities so that financing liabilities have the same maturity In addition, the syndicated loan agreement included a firm
profile as the leased assets and the receivables from financial commitment of a revolving credit facility of €5 billion (the
services. “revolving credit facility”). The revolving credit facility has an
original term of five years with two one-year extension options,
At December 31, 2022, cash and cash equivalents amounted one of which can still be used, and has been agreed at arm’s
to €5,944 million (December 31, 2021: €7,244 million). In 2022, length terms. The Daimler Truck Group does not intend to draw
significant cash inflows resulted from the operations of the on the revolving credit facility.
Industrial Business as well as cash inflows and outflows in con-
nection with the cash provided by financing activities. Cash In September 2022, a further revolving credit facility of €1 bil-
outflows resulted in particular from investments made in intan- lion was concluded with an international banking group. This
gible assets and property, plant and equipment, income taxes credit facility has a term of 24 months and includes an option
paid and an increased portfolio of leasing and financing activi- to increase by €500 million during the first18 months. As of
ties at Financial Services. December 31, 2022, this credit facility has not been utilized.
From an operating point of view, the management of the
Daimler Truck Group’s liquidity exposures is centralized by a
daily cash pooling process. This was introduced on Decem-
ber1, 2021. This process enables the Daimler Truck Group to
manage its liquidity surplus and liquidity requirements accord-
ing to the actual needs of the Daimler Truck Group. The
Daimler Truck Group’s short-term and mid-term liquidity man-
agement takes into account the maturities of financial assets
and financial liabilities and estimates of cash flows from busi-
ness operations.
Table  D.88 provides an overview of how the future liquidity Information on the Daimler Truck Group’s financing liabilities is
E
situation of the Daimler Truck Group can be affected by cash also provided in Note 25. Financial liabilities.
outflows from liabilities, financial guarantees and irrevocable
loan commitments as of December 31, 2022.
D.88
Liquidity runoff for liabilities and financial guarantees¹
Total 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 ≥ 2028
In millions of euros
Financing liabilities² 22,151 8,165 5,353 3,232 1,956 1,748 1,697
thereof lease liabilities 1,322 205 196 174 142 118 487
Derivative financial instruments³ 651 237 151 85 73 32 73
thereof with gross settlement 94 87 7 - - - -
Cash outflows 1,448 1,294 154 - - - -
Cash inflows -1,354 -1,207 -147 - - - -
thereof with net settlement 557 150 144 85 73 32 73
Cash outflows 557 150 144 85 73 32 73
Trade payables⁴ 5,317 5,310 - - - - 7
Miscellaneous other financial liabilities
excluding accrued interest and liabilities
from financial guarantees 3,883 2,307 570 371 274 127 234
Irrevocable loan commitments⁵ 163 163 - - - - -
Financial guarantees⁶ 300 300 - - - - -
32,465 16,482 6,074 3,688 2,303 1,907 2,011
1 The amounts were calculated as follows:
(a) If the counterparty can request payment at different dates, the liability is included on the basis of the earliest date on which the Daimler Truck Group can
be required to pay.
(b) The cash flows of floating-interest financial instruments are estimated on the basis of forward rates.
2 The stated cash flows of financing liabilities consist of their undiscounted principal and interest payments.
3 The undiscounted sum of the cash flows of the derivative financial liabilities is shown for the respective year.
4 The cash outflows of trade payables are shown as undiscounted.
5 The maximum available amounts are stated.
6 The maximum potential obligations under the issued guarantees are stated. It is assumed that the amounts are due within the first year.
Country risk In 2022, the majority of the transactions affected by the
Country risk is the risk of economic loss arising from changes benchmark reform either expired, ended prematurely or
of political, economic, legal or social conditions in the respec- switched to the risk-free reference rates. The Daimler Truck
tive country, e.g., resulting from sovereign measures such as Group expects that the remaining conversion of reference
expropriation or interdiction of foreign currency transfers. rates of hedging instruments and their underlying transactions
to be identical and without any significant delay in time. The
The Daimler Truck Group is exposed to country risk mainly Daimler Truck Group continues to consider the economic rela-
resulting from investments in subsidiaries, associated compa- tionship and thus the continuation of hedge accounting to be
nies, joint ventures and joint operations, as well as from still existing.
cross-border trade receivables. Country risks also arise from
cross-border cash deposits at financial institutions. The nominal values of the affected derivative financial instru-
ments can be found in table  D.86.
The Daimler Truck Group manages these risks via country
exposure limits (e.g., for hard currency portfolios of financial As part of its risk management system, the Daimler Truck
services entities). An internal rating system serves as a basis Group employs value-at-risk analyses. In performing these
for risk-oriented country exposure management; it assigns all analyses, Daimler quantifies its market risk caused by changes
countries to risk classes, with consideration of capital market in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and cer-
indications of country risks. tain commodity prices on a regular basis by predicting the
potential loss over a target time horizon (holding period) and
Financial market risks confidence level.
The global nature of its businesses exposes the Daimler Truck
Group to significant market risks resulting from fluctuations in The value-at-risk calculations are based on the following
foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity assumptions:
prices. The Daimler Truck Group is also exposed to equity
price risk in connection with its investments in listed compa- – potential losses related to fair value changes, and
nies.
– a 99% confidence level at a holding period of five days.
The Daimler Truck Group calculates its overall net exposure to
these market risks to provide the basis for hedging decisions, The Daimler Truck Group calculates the value at risk for
which include the selection of hedging instruments and the exchange rates according to the variance-covariance approach.
determination of hedging volumes and the corresponding peri-
ods. Decisions regarding the management of market risks from When calculating value at risk using the variance-covariance
foreign exchange rates and commodities, as well as asset/lia- approach, the Daimler Truck Group first computes the current
bility management (interest rates), are regularly made by the market value of the Group’s financial instruments portfolio.
relevant the Daimler Truck Group risk management commit- Then, the sensitivity of the portfolio value to changes in the rel-
tees. Net exposures are the basis for the hedging strategies evant market risk factors, such as particular foreign currency
and are updated regularly. exchange rates of specific maturities, is quantified. Based on
volatilities and correlations of these market risk factors, which
Certain benchmark interest rates, including those of the Lon- are obtained from the RiskMetrics™ dataset, a statistical dis-
don Interbank Offer Rate (for US dollar, British pound sterling, tribution of potential changes in the portfolio value at the end
Swiss franc and Japanese yen), have comprehensively of the holding period is computed. The loss which is reached or
reformed internationally by the end of 2022. As a result, those exceeded with a probability of only1% can be derived from this
interest rates were gradually abolished and replaced with alter- calculation and represents the value at risk.
native risk-free reference rates. Alternative interest rates are
being developed on a national level in the context of the
respective legal systems and currencies; they can therefore
vary with regards to their structure, methodology and period of
publication.
Exchange rate risk Daimler Truck AG’s targeted hedge ratios for forecasted oper-
Transaction risk and currency risk management. The global ating cash flows in foreign currency are indicated by a refer-
nature of the Daimler Truck Group’s businesses exposes cash ence model. On the one hand, the hedging horizon is naturally
flows to risks arising from fluctuations in exchange rates. limited by uncertainty related to cash flows that lie far in the
These mainly relate to the Euro, the US dollar, the British future; on the other hand, it may also be limited by the fact
pound, the Australian dollar and the Japanese yen. The Daimler that appropriate currency contracts are not available. This ref-
Truck Group’s exchange rate risk primarily arises when revenue erence model aims to limit risks for the Daimler Truck Group
is generated in a currency that is different from the currency in from unfavorable movements in exchange rates while preserv-
which the costs of revenue are incurred. It may be inadequate ing some flexibility to participate in favorable developments.
to cover the costs if the value of the currency in which the rev- Based on this reference model and depending on the market
enue is generated declines in the interim relative to the value outlook, the committee determines the hedging horizon, which
of the currency in which the costs were incurred. usually varies from one to three years (prior to the spin-off:
one to five years), as well as the average hedge ratios. Reflect-
The Daimler Truck Group is exposed to transaction risks, but ing the character of the underlying risks, the hedge ratios
only to a minor degree because of its global production net- decrease with increasing maturities.
work and the overall lower foreign currency volume. In addition,
the Daimler Truck Group is indirectly exposed to transaction Foreign currency exposure risks of the vehicle business opera-
risk from its equity-method investments. tions are managed primarily with the use of forward foreign
exchange contracts. The instruments applied depend on the
The Daimler Truck Group’s overall currency exposure is assessment of market conditions. Value at risk is used to mea-
reduced by natural hedging, which consists of the currency sure the exchange rate risk inherent in these derivative finan-
exposures of the business operations of different entities and cial instruments.
segments partially offsetting each other at a Group level.
These natural hedges eliminate the need for hedging to the Table  D.89 shows the value at risk at period-end of the
extent of the matched exposures. To provide an additional nat- exchange rate risk for the 2022 and 2021 portfolios of deriva-
ural hedge against any remaining transaction risk exposure, tive financial instruments, which were entered into primarily in
the Daimler Truck Group generally strives to increase cash out- connection with the vehicle business operations. The offset-
flows in the same currencies in which the Daimler Truck Group ting transactions underlying the derivative financial instru-
has a net excess inflow. ments are not included in the following value-at-risk presenta-
tion, since they primarily comprise forecasted cash flows. Also
In order to mitigate the impact of currency exchange rate fluc- refer to table  D.86.
tuations for the Group’s operations (future transactions), the
Daimler Truck Group continually assesses its exposure to
exchange rate risks and hedges a portion of those risks by D.89
using derivative financial instruments. The Daimler Truck Value at risk for exchange rate risk, and interest rate risk
Group manages its exchange rate risk and its hedging transac-
2022 2021
tions through currency derivatives. The corporate treasury
Period-end Period-end
department implements the foreign currency hedging through
In millions of euros
transactions with international financial institutions. Suitable
measures are generally taken without delay to eliminate any
Exchange rate risk (from derivative
over-hedging regarding hedging transactions caused by
financial instruments) 46 14
changes in exposure. The designated hedging relationships are
Interest rate risk (from derivative
also checked at the reporting date. financial instruments) 26 14
Hedge accounting. When designating derivative financial instru- Effects of currency translation risk (“Translation risk”). For pur-
ments, a hedge ratio of1 is applied. In addition, the respective poses of the Consolidated Financial Statements, the income
volumes, interest rate curves and currencies of the hedge and and expenses and the assets and liabilities of non-Euro report-
the underlying transaction as well as maturity dates are ing subsidiaries are converted into euros. Therefore, peri-
matched. The Daimler Truck Group ensures an economic rela- od-to-period changes in average exchange rates may cause
tionship between the underlying transaction and the hedging translation effects that have a significant impact on, for exam-
transaction by ensuring consistency of currency, volume and ple, revenue, segment results (“EBIT”) and assets and liabilities
maturity. Option premiums and forward components are not of the Daimler Truck Group. Unlike exchange rate transaction
designated into the hedge relationship, but the hedging costs risk, exchange rate translation risk does not necessarily affect
are deferred in other comprehensive income and recognized in future cash flows. The Daimler Truck Group’s equity position
profit or loss at the due date of the underlying transaction or reflects changes in book values caused by exchange rates. In
recognized as an adjustment of the acquisition cost of non- general, the Daimler Truck Group does not hedge against cur-
financial assets. Effectiveness is assessed at initial designation rency translation risk.
and during the hedge term. Possible sources of ineffectiveness
of the hedge relationship are: Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash
– Changes in the credit risk when measuring the hedging flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of
instrument used, which are not reflected in the change of changes in market interest rates. The Daimler Truck Group
the hedged currency risk. uses a variety of interest rate sensitive financial instruments to
manage the Group’s liquidity needs. A substantial volume of
– Changes in the timing of the hedged transactions. interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities results from the
leasing and sales financing business operated by the Financial
In 2022, the development of the value-at-risk from foreign cur- Services segment. The Financial Services companies enter
rency hedging was mainly driven by a sharp increase in foreign into transactions with customers that primarily result in fixed-
currency rate volatilities in the first quarter and subsequently rate receivables. The Daimler Truck Group’s general policy is to
by a gradual decrease. match funding in terms of maturities and interest rates wher-
ever economically feasible. However, for a limited portion of
The Daimler Truck Group’s investments in liquid assets or refi- the receivables portfolio in selected and developed markets,
nancing activities are generally selected so that possible cur- Financial Services does not match funding in terms of matur-
rency risks are minimized. Transaction risks arising from liquid ities in order to take advantage of market opportunities. As a
assets or payables in foreign currencies that result from the result, the Daimler Truck Group is exposed to risks due to
Daimler Truck Group’s investment or refinancing on money and changes in interest rates.
capital markets are generally hedged against currency risks at
the time of investing or refinancing in accordance with the The measurement of the interest rate risk of the Daimler Truck
Group’s internal guidelines. The Daimler Truck Group uses Group has been carried out through a value-at-risk analysis.
appropriate derivative financial instruments (e.g., cross-cur-
rency interest rate swaps) to hedge against currency risk. An expert group from the Daimler Truck Group, comprising
members of the Group Treasury, Financial Services Controlling
Since currency risks arising from the Daimler Truck Group’s and Group Controlling, manage the interest rate risk by setting
investment or refinancing in foreign currencies and the respec- targets for the interest rate risk position. This expert group is
tive hedging transactions generally offset each other, these responsible for achieving these targets jointly with the local
financial instruments are not included in the value-at-risk cal- subsidiaries, and also for monitoring these targets on a regular
culation presented. basis. Group Treasury Controlling and the Financial Services
Controlling and Reporting department monitor target achieve-
ment on a regular basis as separate functions. In order to
achieve the targeted interest rate risk positions in terms of
maturities and interest rate fixing periods, the Daimler Truck
Group also uses derivative financial instruments such as inter-
est rate swaps. The Daimler Truck Group assesses its interest
rate risk position by comparing assets and liabilities for
corresponding maturities, including the impact of the relevant
derivative financial instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are also used in conjunction Commodity price risk
with the refinancing related to the automotive segments and The Daimler Truck Group is exposed to the risk of changes in
liquidity management. The Daimler Truck Group manages the commodity prices in connection with procuring raw materials
funding activities of the automotive segments and financial and manufacturing supplies used in production. Risk is limited
services segment at Group level. through long-term supply contracts. The relevant committees
of the Daimler Truck Group review the risk and take actions to
Leasing liabilities are not included in the value-at-risk of the reduce this risk arising from fluctuation of commodity prices, if
interest rate risk. These leasing liabilities have fixed interest necessary.
rates and changes in interest rates therefore have no effect on
the Daimler Truck Group’s net profit. At December 31, 2022, there are no commodity derivatives.
Hedge accounting. When designating derivative financial instru- Hedge accounting. At December 31, 2022, there are no com-
ments, a hedge ratio of1 is generally applied. The respective modity derivatives. Therefore, no hedge accounting takes
volumes, interest rate curves and currencies of the hedged place. The future use of derivatives is possible in principle, as
item and the hedging instrument as well as maturity dates are described above. When designating commodity derivatives,
matched. In the case of combined derivative financial instru- the respective volumes and parameters relevant for the valua-
ments for interest currency hedges, the cross-currency basis tion of the hedged item and the hedging instrument as well as
spread is not designated into the hedge relationship, but maturity dates are matched. The Daimler Truck Group ensures
deferred as a hedging cost in other comprehensive income and an economic relationship between the hedged item and the
recognized in profit or loss over the hedge term. The Daimler hedging instrument by ensuring consistency of volumes,
Truck Group ensures an economic relationship between the parameters relevant for valuation and maturity terms. Effec-
underlying transaction and the hedging instrument by ensuring tiveness is assessed at initial designation and during the hedge
consistency of interest rates, maturity terms and nominal term. Possible sources of ineffectiveness of the hedge relation-
amounts. The effectiveness of the hedge is assessed at the ship are:
beginning and during the economic relationship using the
hypothetical derivative method. Possible sources of ineffec- – Changes in the credit risk on the measurement of the deriva-
tiveness of the hedge relationship are: tive instrument in use which are not reflected in the change
in the hedged commodity price risk.
– Changes in the credit risk when measuring the hedging
instrument in use which are not reflected in the change in – Changes in the timing of the hedged transactions.
the hedged interest rate risk.
Equity price risk
– Changes in the parameters of the underlying hedged trans- The Daimler Truck Group predominantly holds investments in
actions. shares of companies which are classified as long-term invest-
ments, some of which are accounted for using the equity
method. These investments are not included in a market risk
assessment by the Daimler Truck Group.
35. Segment reporting
Internal management and reporting structure
The internal management and reporting structure at the
Reportable segments Daimler Truck Group is principally based on the accounting
E
The Board of Management of Daimler Truck Holding AG, as the policies that are described in Note1. General information
chief operating decision maker, allocates resources to the and significant accounting policies, in accordance with IFRS.
operating segments of the Group and assesses their perfor-
mance on a regular basis. Therefore, the reporting based on The measure of the Daimler Truck Group’s profit or loss used
operating segments retrospectively reflects the internal by the Group’s management and reporting structure is referred
reporting and management structure of the Daimler Truck to as “EBIT”. EBIT comprises gross profit from revenues, selling
Group. and general administrative expenses, research and non-capi-
talized development costs, other operating income/expense
The segments are largely organized and managed separately, and the profit/loss on equity-method investments, net, as well
according to geographical areas, nature of products and ser- as other financial income/expense, net.
vices provided, brands, distribution channels and profile of
customers. The Daimler Truck Group’s activities are divided Transactions between entities within the same segment are
into the segments Trucks North America, Mercedes-Benz, generally eliminated in the respective segment. Transactions
Trucks Asia, Daimler Buses and Financial Services. between the segments are generally eliminated within Recon-
ciliation. The elimination of effects connected with intra-Group
The Trucks North America segment develops, manufactures transfers of equity investments takes place in the segments
and sells trucks under the Freightliner and Western Star involved. Some simplifications have been made in the segment
brands in North America. The segment’s product range also reporting with regard to accounting for leases in connection
includes buses of Thomas Built Buses as well as bus chassis. with intra-group transactions. For example, intra-group leases
are accounted for as operating leases.
The Mercedes-Benz segment develops, manufactures and sells
trucks under the Mercedes-Benz brand, including off-high- Segment assets principally comprise all assets related to the
way-solutions, and also sells trucks under the FUSO brand in operating activities. The automotive segments’ assets exclude
Europe and Latin America (excluding Mexico). income tax assets, assets from defined benefit pension plans
and other post-employment benefit plans, and certain financial
The Trucks Asia segment develops, manufactures and sells assets (including liquidity). Segment liabilities principally com-
trucks and buses under the FUSO and BharatBenz brands, and prise all liabilities related to the operating activities. The auto-
sells trucks and buses under the Mercedes-Benz brand. Trucks motive segments’ liabilities exclude income tax liabilities, liabil-
Asia is also active in China through Daimler Truck China ities from defined benefit pension plans and other
(“DTC”) and its subsidiary Daimler Trucks and Buses China post-employment benefit plans, and certain financial liabilities
(“DTBC”), through which Mercedes-Benz trucks are imported (including financing liabilities).
to China. Furthermore, trucks are produced under the Auman
brand as part of the BFDA joint venture with Foton. The residual-value risks associated with the Daimler Truck
Group’s operating leases and finance lease receivables are gen-
The Daimler Buses segment develops, manufactures, and sells erally borne by the automotive segments that manufactured
buses under the Mercedes-Benz and Setra brands. The seg- the leased equipment. Risk sharing is based on agreements
ment’s product range also includes bus chassis under the between the automotive segment and Financial Services; the
Mercedes-Benz brand. terms vary by automotive segment and geographic region.
Trucks North America, Mercedes-Benz, Trucks Asia and Non-current assets consist of intangible assets, property,
Daimler Buses comprise the automotive segments. plant and equipment, and equipment on operating leases.
The automotive segments also sell powertrains, parts and Capital expenditures for intangible assets and property, plant
accessories to external customers as well as to each other. and equipment reflect the cash-effective additions to these
The Mercedes-Benz segment is the main supplier of spare intangible assets and property, plant and equipment as far as
parts to the other segments. they do not relate to capitalized borrowing costs or goodwill.
The Financial Services segment supports the sales of the
trucks and buses worldwide. Its product portfolio primarily
comprises tailored financing and leasing packages for end-cus-
tomers and dealers, brokering of commercial vehicles insur-
ance and banking services.
Depreciation and amortization may also include impairments Reconciliation
insofar as they do not relate to goodwill impairment according The reconciliation includes other business activities and
to IAS 36. investments, in particular in the area of autonomous driving.
Moreover, functions and services provided by the Daimler
Amortization of capitalized borrowing costs is not included in Truck Group’s headquarters as well as by other companies of
the amortization of intangible assets or depreciation of prop- the Group not allocated to the segments are included. In
erty, plant and equipment. addition, the reconciliation includes projects managed by
headquarters.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually at the end of the
financial year and whenever there is an indication of impair- Table  D.90 presents segment information at and for the
ment, at the level of cash-generating units, representing the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021.
lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal man-
agement purposes.
D.90
Segment information
Trucks Daimler
North Mercedes- Trucks Daimler Financial Total Recon- Truck
America Benz Asia Buses Services Segments ciliation Group
In millions of euros
2022
External revenue 21,922 17,843 5,915 3,551 1,714 50,945 - 50,945
Intersegment revenue 117 2,370 584 138 45 3,254 -3,254 -
Total revenue 22,039 20,213 6,499 3,689 1,759 54,199 -3,254 50,945
Segment profit/loss (EBIT) 2,376 1,188 161 -52 310 3,983 -487 3,496
thereof profit/loss on
equity-method investments 8 -114 -64 - - -170 -56 -226
thereof profit/loss from
compounding and effects from
changes in discount rates of
provisions for other risks -16 132 - 15 -3 128 11 139
31. Dec. 2022
Segment assets 7,441 14,415 5,525 3,289 25,545 56,215 891 57,106
thereof carrying amounts of
of equity-method investments 20 - 353 8 - 381 692 1,073
Segment liabilities 6,427 9,120 2,100 2,500 23,327 43,474 -463 43,011
Additions to
non-current assets 355 2,064 305 222 903 3,849 7 3,856
thereof investments in
intangible assets 6 161 58 15 19 259 7 266
thereof investments in property,
plant and equipment 216 452 153 85 11 917 1 918
Depreciation and amortization of non-current assets 282 904 249 179 19 1,633 9 1,642
thereof amortization of
intangible assets 14 120 27 17 4 182 4 186
thereof depreciation of
property, plant and equipment
(incl. right-of-use assets) 241 417 192 69 11 930 5 935
Trucks Daimler
North Mercedes- Trucks Daimler Financial Total Recon- Truck
America Benz Asia Buses Services Segments ciliation Group
In millions of euros
2021
External revenue 15,692 14,214 5,654 3,091 1,111 39,762 2 39,764
Intersegment revenue 90 1,899 315 120 11 2,435 -2,435 -
Total revenue 15,782 16,113 5,969 3,211 1,122 42,197 -2,433 39,764
Segment profit/loss (EBIT) 1,440 483 417 -152 173 2,361 996 3,357
thereof profit/loss on
equity-method investments 6 -13 167 -1 - 159 -53 106
thereof profit/loss from
compounding and effects from
changes in discount rates of
provisions for other risks -1 26 - 3 -2 26 - 26
31. Dec. 2021
Segment assets 6,385 13,127 5,731 3,282 17,926 46,451 1,300 47,751
thereof carrying amounts of
of equity-method investments 17 97 589 7 - 710 659 1,369
Segment liabilities 5,674 8,357 1,987 2,240 16,361 34,619 290 34,909
Additions to
non-current assets 285 2,227 261 349 153 3,275 6 3,281
thereof investments in
intangible assets 7 227 56 16 12 318 - 318
thereof investments in property,
plant and equipment 214 353 128 62 5 762 - 762
Depreciation and amortization of
non-current assets 248 1,013 257 185 116 1,819 11 1,830
thereof amortization of
intangible assets 15 167 35 17 40 274 10 284
thereof depreciation of
property, plant and equipment 210 392 192 68 10 872 4 876
Reconciliation Revenue and non-current assets by region
The reconciliation of the segments’ amounts to relevant With respect to information on geographical regions, revenue
amounts for the Daimler Truck Group is shown in table  D.91. is allocated to countries based on the location of the cus-
tomer; non-current assets are presented according to the
physical location of these assets.
D.91
Reconciliation of the segments to the Group Financial Statements Revenue from external customers and non-current assets by
region are shown in table  D.92.
At December 31,
2022 2021
In millions of euros
D.92
Revenue and non-current assets by region
Total of segments’ profit (EBIT) 3,983 2,361
Profit/loss on equity-method investments -56 -53 Revenue Non-current assets1
Other operating income - 1,215 Dec. 31, Dec. 31,
Other business activities and 2022 2021 2022 2021
corporate items -364 -163 In millions of euros
Eliminations -67 -3
EBIT of the Group 3,496 3,357 Europe 15,330 13,091 8,868 8,038
thereof Germany 5,532 5,266 6,824 6,414
Total of segments’ assets 56,215 46,451 North America 22,587 16,216 3,155 2,792
Carrying amount of equity-method thereof United States 19,175 13,786 2,593 2,214
investments 692 659 Asia 6,546 5,690 2,300 2,494
Income tax assets1 1,565 1,337 thereof Japan 2,864 3,248 2,027 2,229
Other business activities and Latin America 4,587 3,011 619 542
corporate items 458 422
Other markets 1,895 1,756 263 236
Eliminations -1,824 -1,118
50,945 39,764 15,205 14,102
Segment assets of the Group 57,106 47,751
1 Non-current assets includes Intangible assets, Property, plant and
Unallocated financial assets (including
equipment, and Equipment on operating leases.
liquidity) and assets from pensions
and similar obligations1 6,863 7,049
Total assets of the Group 63,969 54,800
Total of segments liabilities 43,474 34,619
Income tax liabilities1 79 287
Other business activities and
corporate items 1,078 991
Eliminations -1,620 -988
Segment liabilities of the Group 43,011 34,909
Unallocated financial liabilities and
liabilities from pensions and
similar obligations1 352 3,468
Total equity of the Group 20,606 16,423
Total equity and liabilities of the Group 63,969 54,800
1 Unless allocated to Financial Services.
In 2021, other operating income includes the gain from the
loss of control of cellcentric GmbH & Co. KG, resulting in a
positive effect on earnings of €1,215 million.
Other business activities and corporate items is comprised pri-
marily of operational expenses of €191 million related to the
Daimler Truck Group’s autonomous driving business activities
(2021: €114 million).
36. Capital management 37. Earnings per share
The capital management of the Daimler Truck Group is based The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is
on the net assets for the Industrial Business and equity for based on profit attributable to shareholders of the Daimler
Financial Services. The assets and liabilities of the segments in Truck Group. There were no dilution effects in respect of equi-
accordance with IFRS provide the basis for the determination ties in 2022 or 2021. The profit attributable to shareholders of
of net assets of the Industrial Business. The segments of the the Daimler Truck Group (basic and diluted) amounted to
Industrial Business are accountable for the operating net €2,665 million (2021: €2,347 million). The weighted-average
assets; all assets, liabilities and provisions which they are number of shares outstanding (basic and diluted) corre-
responsible for in day-to-day operations are therefore allo- sponded to the total number of shares issued after the imple-
cated to them. The net assets of the Industrial Business also mentation of the demerger agreement and amounted to
include reconciliation items of the Group that are not assigned 822,951,882 for which the result is calculated in each case.
to the segments. Performance measurement at Financial Ser-
vices is on an equity basis, in line with the usual practice in the The same number of shares were used for calculating earnings
banking business. per share for the fiscal year 2021. There were no instruments
outstanding or planned with a potential dilutive effect on the
The average capital bases of the year are calculated from the earnings per share.
average capital bases of the quarters. These are calculated as
an average at the beginning and end of the quarter. Table  D.93 shows the numerator and the denominator for
the calculation of earnings per share.
The cost of capital of the Daimler Truck Group is derived from
the minimum rates of return that investors expect on their
invested capital. The cost of capital of the Industrial Business D.93
is determined from the weighted cost of equity and borrowing Earnings per share
costs. The calculation of the cost of equity is based on the
2022 2021
CAPM method.
In millions of euros
The objective of capital management is to optimize the cost of
Consolidated profit/loss attributable to
capital. This is achieved on the one hand by the management
shareholders 2,665 2,347
of net assets, e.g. by optimizing working capital, which is
within the operating responsibility of the segments. In addition,
In millions of shares
taking legal regulations into account, the Daimler Truck Group
strives to optimize the costs and risks of its capital structure
Weighted-average number of shares
and, consequently, the cost of capital. Examples of this include outstanding – basic and diluted 823 823
a balanced ratio between equity and liabilities as well as an
appropriate level of liquidity, oriented towards operating Earnings per share – basic and diluted 3.24 2.85
requirements.
38. Related party disclosures
Transactions with the Mercedes-Benz Group
The Daimler Truck Group made sales to companies of the
Related parties (companies or persons) are deemed to be Mercedes-Benz Group. Those sales relate predominantly to
Mercedes-Benz Group entities, associated companies, joint trucks, parts, spare parts and services. Furthermore, the
ventures and subsidiaries not in the scope of consolidation, as Daimler Truck Group purchased goods and services from com-
well as persons who exercise a significant influence on the panies of the Mercedes-Benz Group. The purchases of goods
financial and business policy of the Daimler Truck Group. and services primarily relate to parts, spare parts and services
provided by central functions. These central corporate func-
The latter category includes all persons in key positions and tions include services such as, but not limited to, tax, legal,
their close family members. As of the reporting date, those accounting, IT, personnel-related and treasury services.
persons are the members of the Board of Management and of
the Supervisory Board of Daimler Truck Holding AG. Prior to In addition to the transactions in the operating activities,
the spin-off, those persons were all members of the Board of further financing occurred related to transactions with the
Management and Supervisory Board of Mercedes-Benz Mercedes-Benz Group.
Group AG and Daimler Truck AG. Members of the Board of
Management of Daimler Truck Holding AG are only included if Non-controlling interests in Gamma (1–4)
they had similar positions within Daimler Truck AG. Daimler Truck Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. OHGs
and in EvoBus OHG
Related companies At December 31, 2022, non-controlling interests in the Gamma
As of the reporting date, related companies include, in particu- (1-4) Daimler Truck Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. OHGs
lar, the Mercedes-Benz Group as well as its joint ventures due and EvoBus OHG held by Mercedes-Benz Grund Services
to Mercedes-Benz Group AG’s 30.01% minority shareholding in GmbH were recognized as financial liabilities and amounted to
the Daimler Truck Group (also refer to the explanations below €191 million (December 31, 2021: €209 million). For further
E
regarding the 2021 demerger agreement). Until the spin-off in information, refer to Note 33. Financial instruments.
2021, the Daimler Truck Business was controlled by
Mercedes-Benz Group AG, consequently, related companies of Leases with the Mercedes-Benz Group
the Mercedes-Benz Group included Mercedes-Benz Group AG For the sale of vehicles to Mercedes-Benz Group companies by
and its direct and indirect subsidiaries (excluding the Daimler which the Daimler Truck Group is obliged to repurchase the
E
Truck Group as defined in Note 42. Additional information) vehicles, which are accounted for as a lease, the correspond-
as well as associates and joint ventures. ing balances of residual-value guarantees as of December 31,
2022 amounted to €1,104 million (December 31, 2021:
In addition to the related companies of the Group, related com- €1,393 million). The related deferred income at December 31,
panies also include associated companies, joint ventures and 2022 amounted to €735 million (December 31, 2021: €902 mil-
the non-consolidated Daimler Truck Group subsidiaries, as well lion).
as associates.
For lease transactions where Financial Services leases passen-
Goods and services supplied between the Daimler Truck Group ger vehicles to third-party customers, which were previously
and related companies comprise transactions with the acquired from external dealers, the Mercedes-Benz Group
Mercedes-Benz Group, associated companies and joint ven- issued residual-value guarantees. At December 31, 2022 the
tures, and are shown in table  D.94. residual-value guarantees issued by the Mercedes-Benz Group
to Financial Services for leased passenger cars (leased out to
end customers under operating leases) amounted to €66 mil-
lion (December 31, 2021: €47 million). Residual-value guaran-
tees issued by the Mercedes-Benz Group to Financial Services
companies where passenger cars were leased out to end cus-
tomers under a finance lease amounted to €76 million at
December 31, 2022 (December 31, 2021: €60 million).
In addition, prior to the spin-off, the Daimler Truck Business
granted Financial Services part of the Mercedes-Benz Group
credit risk guarantees which required the issuer to make speci-
fied payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs
because its customers fail to make payments when due. Finan-
cial liabilities due to Mercedes-Benz Group companies as of
December 31, 2022 amounted to €1 million (December 31,
2021: €32 million). The corresponding off-balance-sheet
amounts for the financial liabilities resulting from credit risk
guarantees issued to the Mercedes-Benz Group as of Decem-
ber 31, 2022 amounted to €28 million (December 31, 2021:
€32 million).
In the second quarter of 2022, a financial liability for a default Associated companies
risk of an external customer in the amount of €15 million with In business relationships with associated companies, signifi-
the Mercedes-Benz Group was redeemed. cant revenue from the sales of goods and services was real-
ized with associated companies of Mitsubishi Fuso Truck and
Financial liabilities resulting from transactions with companies Bus Corporation (“MFTBC”).
of the Mercedes-Benz Group include financial liabilities from
sale and leaseback transactions where the sale does not sat- On September 21, 2021, Daimler Truck AG transferred its15%
isfy the requirements of IFRS15. equity investment in KAMAZ PAO (“KAMAZ”) to
Mercedes-Benz Group AG for cash consideration of €132 mil-
For lease transactions where the Daimler Truck Group is a les- lion, effective on September 28, 2021.
see, the carrying amount of right-of-use assets amounted to
€100 million at December 31, 2022 (December 31, 2021: After the spin-off from the Mercedes-Benz Group, KAMAZ PAO
€120 million). At December 31, 2022, the carrying amount of is no longer considered a related party for the Daimler Truck
the associated lease liabilities were €98 million (December 31, Group.
2021: €117 million). The lease transactions included real estate,
IT equipment and other items. Joint ventures
In business relationships with joint ventures, significant sales
Transfer of Phase 2 legal entities and operations from the of goods and services took place with National Automobile
Mercedes-Benz Group Industry Company Ltd. (“NAI”) and Beijing Foton Daimler Auto-
In accordance with the 2021 demerger agreement, during motive Co., Ltd (“BFDA”).
2022, there were transfers of certain companies and business
unit from the Mercedes-Benz Group to the Daimler Truck Further information on capital contributions made can be
E
Group as part of the Phase 2 transactions. Truck and bus-re- found in Note14. Equity-method investments.
lated leasing portfolios and end customer financing were
acquired as asset deals or share deals. The effects of these License agreement with Beijing Foton Daimler
transfers are not included in table  D.94. Automotive Co., Ltd
In October 2020, the Daimler Truck Group concluded a tech-
E
For more information, refer to Note 4. Business combina- nology license agreement (“TLA”) with the joint venture Beijing
tions. Foton Daimler Automotive Co., Ltd in connection with the
localization of Mercedes-Benz trucks for the Chinese market.
Use or transfer of brands, trademarks, patents, IP This agreement includes the use of certain intellectual prop-
domains and software erty rights by Beijing Foton Daimler Automotive Co., Ltd for the
In September 2021, the Daimler Truck Group entered into a localization of Mercedes-Benz H6 Technology in exchange for
license agreement with the Mercedes-Benz Group for the a license fee totaling €318 million.
right-to-use of the Mercedes-Benz brand for an indefinite
period in exchange for no consideration, effective in Decem- Daimler Truck AG transferred the final technical product docu-
ber 2021. The agreement is reflected as a contribution at fair mentation in the second quarter of 2022 and thus fulfilled the
value of €932 million upon the effective date. obligation from the TLA. This therefore led to revenue recogni-
tion of the license fee (€318 million) and an increase in receiv-
Hedging ables from Beijing Foton Daimler Automotive Co., Ltd as an
The Daimler Truck Group hedges interest and foreign exchange affiliated company.
risks independently using its own hedging instruments. The
volume, nature and strategy of those hedging procedures are At the Group level, this transaction is a downstream transac-
E
described in detail in Note 33. Financial instruments and tion with a joint venture. Therefore, an elimination was
E
Note 34. Management of financial risks. recorded, which reduced revenue in the Mercedes-Benz seg-
ment and the equity-method investment in the Trucks Asia
segment. After elimination, the positive effect in EBIT of the
Mercedes-Benz segment and the Daimler Truck Group
amounted to €159 million in the second quarter of 2022.
E
Note14. Equity-method investments provides further
details of the significant associates and joint ventures.
Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations Guarantees
Further information on contingent liabilities and other financial The Mercedes-Benz Group issued letters of credit and guaran-
E
obligations with related parties are provided in Note 32. tees in favor of the Daimler Truck Business and its customers.
Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations.
At December 31, 2022, the guarantees issued by the
Joint and several liability of the Mercedes-Benz Group for Mercedes-Benz Group amounted to €312 million (Decem-
claims against liabilities of Daimler Truck AG from the ber 31, 2021: €582 million).
2019 hive-down
In 2019, Mercedes-Benz Group AG hived down parts of its The guarantees issued by the Daimler Truck Group in favor of
business operations into Daimler Truck AG and the Mercedes-Benz Group, associated companies, joint
Mercedes-Benz AG. Pursuant to Section133 of the German ventures and affiliated but not consolidated companies, as of
Transformation Act (“UmwG”), all three legal entities are jointly December 31, 2022 amounted to €88 million (December 31,
and severally liable for all liabilities of Mercedes-Benz 2021: €100 million).
Group AG that existed as of the registration date of the hive-
down in the commercial register. After the spin-off in 2021, no new letters of credit and guaran-
tees to secure obligations of the companies of the Daimler
Mercedes-Benz Group AG and Mercedes-Benz AG are there- Truck Group were issued by Mercedes-Benz Group AG or the
fore also liable for liabilities assigned to Daimler Truck AG that companies of the Mercedes-Benz Group. Existing guarantees
existed as of the date of the announcement of the entry of the were replaced by the corresponding Daimler Truck Group guar-
hive-down in the commercial register for a period of five years. antees to the extent possible and reasonable from an adminis-
For pension obligations based on the German Company Pen- tration perspective. However, some guarantees are still in
sions Act (“Betriebsrentengesetz”), the aforementioned period place as of the reporting date, which are expected to be set-
is ten years. tled at the latest by the end of the contract term.
The potential subsequent liability of Mercedes-Benz Group AG Contributions to plan assets
and Mercedes-Benz AG to third parties resulting from Section Daimler Truck Pension Trust e.V. administers the plan assets
133 of the German Transformation Act (“UmwG”) amounts to to secure pension obligations in Germany on a fiduciary basis
€1,335 million as of December 31, 2022 (due in the next12 and is therefore a related party of the Daimler Truck Group.
months: €338 million) (December 31, 2021: €1,690 million, due Daimler Truck AG bears insignificant expenses and provides
in 2022: €447 million). services for the company. During 2022, allocations to the
Daimler Truck Pension Trust e.V. amounted to €294 million, of
Further relevant provisions in this context, in particular the which €250 million was allocated on the basis of the 2021
procedure for regulating the internal settlements between the demerger agreement.
participating legal entities, are regulated in the hive-down
agreement of March 25, 2019. Share-based payments
E
For further information, refer to Note 22. Share-based
payment.
Related persons
At the reporting date, all members of the Board of Manage-
ment and of the Supervisory Board of Daimler Truck Hold-
ing AG were considered to be key management personnel.
Compensation of the key management personnel
Information on management remuneration in key positions is
E
provided in Note 39. Remuneration of the members of the
Board of Management and the Supervisory Board.
D.94
Transactions with related companies
Sales of goods Purchase of goods
and services and services
and other income and other expense Receivables1 Payables2
At December 31, At December 31,
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
In millions of euros
Associated companies 216 317 13 39 36 21 2 2
thereof KAMAZ PAO3 - 154 - 27 - - - -
thereof MFTBC investees 148 125 13 12 21 16 2 2
Joint ventures 546 394 94 20 330 87 2 13
thereof DKTH4 34 273 49 7 - 53 - -
thereof NAI 241 99 3 2 72 22 - -
thereof BFDA 265 6 30 1 254 3 - -
Mercedes-Benz Group5 3,205 3,848 1,308 1,829 411 739 1,826 2,530
1 Receivables comprise balance sheet items that result in cash inflow. These include trade receivables, loans granted and other receivables. Receivables
include impairments totaling €57 million (December 31, 2021: €0 million), of which €49 million are due to Daimler KAMAZ Trucks Holding GmbH
(no impairment loss due to Daimler KAMAZ Trucks Holding GmbH was recognized as of December 31, 2021).
2 Payables comprise balance sheet items that lead to potential future cash outflow. They include trade accounts payable, residual value guarantees, default
risks from guarantees, financing liabilities, lease liabilities and other liabilities.
3 The Group transferred its Equity-method investment in KAMAZ PAO to Mercedes-Benz Group AG on September 21, 2021, effective on September 28, 2021.
Since the spin-off, KAMAZ PAO is no longer a related company for the Daimler Truck Group. For 2021, the Consolidated Statement of Income reflects all
transactions until the effective date. From the effective date until the spin-off in 2021, all transactions are reflected within the item: Mercedes-Benz Group.
4 All revenues with Daimler KAMAZ Trucks Holding GmbH in 2022 are for the period January 01, 2022 to February 27, 2022. Business activities with Daimler
KAMAZ Trucks Holding GmbH were discontinued on February 27, 2022 until further notice. The Company was sold on December 30, 2022. In 2022, pur-
chase of goods and services and other expenses from Daimler KAMAZ Trucks Holding GmbH included impairment losses on trade receivables of €49 mil-
lion (2021: €0 million).
5 Thereof expenses for services received from the Mercedes-Benz Group of €606 million (2021: €399 million).
39. Remuneration of the members
The members of the Supervisory Board of Daimler Truck Hold-
of the Board of Management and the ing AG are solely granted short-term fixed remuneration for
their board and committee activities, the amounts of which
Supervisory Board
depend on their functions in the Supervisory Board. With the
exception of remuneration paid to the members representing
In accordance with IAS 24 – Related Party Disclosures, the key the employees in accordance with their contracts of employ-
management personnel are those persons having authority ment, no remuneration was paid for services provided person-
and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the ally beyond board and committee activities, in particular for
activities of the Daimler Truck Group directly or indirectly. advisory or agency services.
Due to various reorganizational measures in the context of the
spin-off from the Mercedes-Benz Group, the persons that are D.96
classified as key management personnel of the Daimler Truck Remuneration of the members of the Board of Management
Group changed during the periods presented. and the Supervisory Board of DTHAG1
2022 2021
Table  D.95 provides an overview of key management person-
In millions of euros
nel prior and subsequent to the spin-off in 2021.
Remuneration of the Board of Management
Fixed remuneration
D.95 (base salary) 6.9 4.7
Key management personnel prior and subsequent to the spin-off Short-term variable remuneration
(annual bonus) 5.9 6.0
Before the spin-off After the spin-off Mid-term variable remuneration
Boards of (i) Board of Management (i) Board of (“deferral”) 5.9 0.5
Management of DTAG M anagement Variable remuneration with
(ii) Board of Management of of DTHAG a long-term incentive effect (PPSP) 6.4 14.8
Mercedes-Benz Group AG
(iii) Board of Management
Post-employment benefits
of DTHAG1,2 (service cost) 1.9 1.1
Supervisory (i) S upervisory Board (i) S upervisory Termination benefits - -
Boards of DTAG Board 27.0 27.1
(ii) Supervisory Board of of DTHAG
Mercedes-Benz Group AG
(iii) S upervisory Board Remuneration of the Supervisory Board 3.6 1.5
of DTHAG1,2 30.6 28.6
1 If the members had similar roles within Daimler Truck AG. 1 The remuneration of the members of the Board of Management and the
2 The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board of Daimler Supervisory Board of Daimler Truck AG and Mercedes-Benz Group AG is
Truck Holding AG was established on March 25, 2021. included until the spin-off date in 2021.
The remuneration of the Board of Management and Supervi- D.97
sory Board of Mercedes-Benz Group AG is, however, only Remuneration of the members of the Board of Management
included with the proportional share that was charged or allo- and the Supervisory Board of Mercedes-Benz Group AG1
cated for services provided to the Daimler Truck Group until
the spin-off date. The proportional share was determined
2021
based on the cost allocation charge relating to the Daimler
In millions of euros
Truck Group.
Remuneration of the Board of Management
The remuneration of the key management personnel are shown
Fixed remuneration
in tables  D.96 and  D.97. (base salary) 9.1
Short-term variable remuneration
Expenses for the variable remuneration with a long-term incen- (annual bonus) 7.5
tive effect, as shown in table  D.96, result from the ongoing Mid-term variable remuneration
(“deferral”) 7.5
measurement at fair value at each reporting date of all rights
Variable remuneration with
granted and not yet due under the Performance Phantom
a long-term incentive effect (PPSP) 22.9
Share Plans (“PPSP”). Any PPSP transferred with the 2021
Post-employment benefits
spin-off and continued by the Daimler Truck Group. Refer to (service cost) 2.1
E
Note 22. Share-based payment for additional information. Termination benefits 0.0
49.1
Remuneration of the Supervisory Board 6.2
55.3
1 The remuneration of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board
of Mercedes-Benz Group AG was included with the proportional share of
approximately 27% to the Daimler Truck Group only up to the spin-off in
2021.
40. Auditor fee
Disclosures in accordance with Section 314 Subsection1
No. 6 of the German Commercial Code (“HGB”)
The overall remuneration total compensation granted to the The shareholders of Daimler Truck Holding AG elected
members of(excluding pension commitments) for the Board of KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft as the statutory
Management of Daimler Truck Holding AG, excluding service auditor on June 22, 2022. Pursuant to Section 314 Subsection
cost resulting from entitlements within the meaning of Section 1 No. 9 of the German Commercial Code (HGB), table  D.98
314 Subsection1 No. 6 of the German Commercial Code shows the fees for services provided by KPMG AG Wirtschafts-
(“HGB”) for the financial year 2022 is calculated as the total of prüfungsgesellschaft and the companies of the worldwide
the following KPMG network to Daimler Truck Holding AG and the consoli-
dated subsidiaries.
– the fixed basic remuneration for 2022
Audit services relate to the audit of the Daimler Truck Group’s
– half of the annual bonus for 2022, to be paid in 2023 with Consolidated Financial Statements and the year-end company
the value on the balance sheet date, financial statements, as well as to all services required for the
audit including the reviews of interim financial statements, the
– half of the medium-term share-based portion of the annual accounting-related audit of the internal control system, and
bonus for 2022 (“deferral”) to post-employment be paid in accounting-related reviews of the introduction of IT systems
2024 with a value as of the balance sheet date 2022 (the and processes.
amount to be paid depends on the development of the
Daimler Truck Holding AG share compared to the STOXX Other attestation services were provided in particular for vol-
Europe Auto Index) untary audits of sustainability reports and the issuance of
comfort letters.
– the grant value of the long-term share-based compensation
(Performance Phantom Share Plan - “PPSP”) at the grant Other services were mainly commissioned in connection with
date in 2022 (payment in 2026) and IT and process consulting, projects in connection with the
spin-off, and quality assurance not relevant to accounting.
– the taxable non-cash benefits, amounted to €24 million and
other fringe benefits in 2022.
D.98
For the two share-based compensation components - both the Auditor fees
delayed second 50% of the annual bonus (deferral) and the
long-term oriented PPSP - the respective future payment
2022 2021
amounts may deviate significantly from the values shown,
In millions of euros
depending on the development of the Daimler Truck Hold-
ing AG share and the achievement of the respective target
Audit services 19.4 15.2
parameters. The possible upward deviation is limited by maxi-
thereof KPMG AG
mum limits. A total failure of both components is also possible.
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft 8.6 7.0
Other attestation services 1.6 1.8
For 2022, €7.5 million (2021: €0.5 million) is attributable to
thereof KPMG AG
fixed (i.e. non-performance-related) remuneration, and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft 1.4 1.4
€12.0 million (2021: €0.9 million) to short- and medium-term Tax services 0.2 0.4
perfor-mance-related variable compensation components thereof KPMG AG
(annual bonus with deferral) as well as long-term variable Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft - 0.2
share-based compensation (“PPSP”) with a fair value of Other services 1.3 1.4
€5.7 million (2021: €3.9 million) and 232,988 phantom shares thereof KPMG AG
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft 1.3 1.2
granted (2021:165,092 shares). This corresponds to a total
22.5 18.8
amount of €25.2 million for 2022 (2021: €5.3 million).
No advance payments or loans were made or abated to current
41. Events after the reporting period
or former members of the Board of Management or to the
members of the Supervisory Board of Daimler Truck Hold-
ing AG. For one member of the Board of Management an error In January 2023, the Daimler Truck Group issued a bond of
led to an overpayment of less than €1 million, which will be €1.7 billion on the US capital market.
corrected in the financial year 2023 and the funds will be
returned.
The Remuneration of the Supervisory Board of Daimler Truck
Holding AG amounts to €3.6 million (2021: €0.2 million).
42. Additional information
Information on investments
The statement of investments of the Daimler Truck Group pur-
German Corporate Governance Code suant to Section 313 Subsection 2 Nos. 1-6 of the German
The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board of Commercial Code (“HGB”) is presented in table  D.99. In
Daimler Truck Holding AG have issued a declaration pursuant general, a cooperation without an equity interest is not
to Section161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (“AktG”) reported. In addition, the statement of investments indicates
and have made it permanently available to their shareholders which consolidated companies make use of the exemption pur-
w
on the Daimler Truck Website. suant to Section 264 Subsection 3 of the HGB and/or Section
264b of the HGB. The Consolidated Financial Statements of
Daimler Truck Holding AG release those subsidiaries from the
requirements that would otherwise apply.
D.99
Name of the company Domicile, country/region Equity interests Footnote(s)
in percent1
I. Consolidated subsidiaries
Atlantis Foundries (Pty.) Ltd. Atlantis Industria, South Africa 100.00
Banco Mercedes-Benz do Brasil S.A. São Paulo, Brazil 100.00
Campo Largo Comercio de Veículos e Peças Ltda. Campinas, Brazil 100.00
CharterWay France S.A.S. Montigny-le-Bretonneux, France 100,00
Daimler Buses North America Inc. Oriskany, USA 100.00
Daimler Commercial Vehicles South East Asia Pte. Ltd. Singapore, Singapore 100.00
Daimler Financial Services México, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico City, Mexico 100.00
Daimler Financial Services, S.A. de C.V., S.O.F.O.M., E.N.R. Mexico City, Mexico 100.00
Daimler India Commercial Vehicles Private Limited Chennai, India 100.00
Daimler Manufactura, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico City, Mexico 100.00
Daimler Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico City, Mexico 100.00
Daimler Servicios Corporativos Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico City, Mexico 100.00
Daimler Sigorta Aracilik Hizmetleri A.S. Istanbul, Turkey 100.00
Daimler Truck & Bus Slovakia s.r.o. Bratislava, Slovakia 100.00
Daimler Truck AG Stuttgart, Germany 100.00 3
Daimler Truck Australia Pacific Pty Ltd Melbourne, Australia 100.00
Daimler Truck Canada Ltd. Mississauga, Canada 100.00
Daimler Truck China Limited Beijing, China 100.00
Daimler Truck Customer Services & Parts s.r.o. Prague, Czech Republic 100.00
Daimler Truck España, S.L. Alcobendas, Spain 100.00
Daimler Truck Finance Canada Inc. Toronto, Canada 100.00
Daimler Truck Finance North America LLC Wilmington, USA 100.00
Daimler Truck Financial Services Asia Co., Ltd. Tokyo, Japan 100.00
Daimler Truck Financial Services Australia Pty Ltd Melbourne, Australia 100.00
Daimler Truck Financial Services Belgium NV Brussels, Belgium 100.00
Daimler Truck Financial Services Brasil Holding S.A. São Bernardo do Campo, Brazil 100.00
Daimler Truck Financial Services Canada Corporation Vancouver, Canada 100.00
Daimler Truck Financial Services Deutschland GmbH Berlin, Germany 100.00 3
Daimler Truck Financial Services España, E.F.C., S.A.U. Alcobendas, Spain 100.00
Daimler Truck Financial Services GmbH Stuttgart, Germany 100.00 3
Daimler Truck Financial Services Italia S.p.A Rome, Italy 100.00
Daimler Truck Financial Services Nederland B.V. Nieuwegein, Netherlands 100.00
Daimler Truck Financial Services South Africa (Pty) Ltd Centurion, South Africa 100.00
Daimler Truck Financial Services UK Limited Milton Keynes, United Kingdom 100.00
Daimler Truck Financial Services USA LLC Wilmington, USA 100.00
Daimler Truck France S.A.S.U. Montigny-le-Bretonneux, France 100,00
Daimler Truck Holding Australia Pacific Pty Ltd Melbourne, Australia 100.00
Daimler Truck Insurance Agency LLC Wilmington, USA 100.00
Daimler Truck International Finance B.V. Utrecht, Netherlands 100.00
Daimler Truck Nederland B.V. Utrecht, Netherlands 100.00
Daimler Truck North America LLC Portland, USA 100.00
Daimler Truck Polska Sp. z.o.o. Warsaw, Poland 100,00
Daimler Truck Remarketing Corporation Portland, USA 100,00
Daimler Truck Renting España S.A. Alcobendas, Spain 100.00
Daimler Truck Retail Italia S.r.l. Rome, Italy 100.00
Name of the company Domicile, country/region Equity interests Footnote(s)
in percent1
Daimler Truck Retail Lyon SAS Genas, France 100,00
Daimler Truck Retail Paris SAS Wissous, France 100,00
Daimler Truck Retail Portugal, Unipessoal, Lda. Alverca, Portugal 100.00
Daimler Truck Services France S.A. Montigny-le-Bretonneux, France 100.00
Daimler Truck Southern Africa Ltd Centurion, South Africa 100.00
Daimler Truck Vermögens- und Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH Stuttgart, Germany 100.00 3
Daimler Truck Verwaltungsgesellschaft für Grundbesitz mbH Schönefeld, Germany 100.00 3
Daimler Trucks & Buses US Holding LLC Wilmington, USA 100.00
Daimler Trucks and Buses (China) Ltd. Beijing, China 100.00
Daimler Trucks Asia Taiwan Ltd. Taipei, Taiwan 51.00
Daimler Trucks Korea Ltd. Seoul, South Korea 100.00
Daimler Trucks Retail Receivables LLC Wilmington, USA 100.00
Daimler Trucks Retail Trust 2020-1 Wilmington, USA 0.00 5
Daimler Trucks Retail Trust 2021-1 Wilmington, USA 0.00 5
Daimler Trucks Retail Trust 2022-1 Wilmington, USA 0.00 5
Daimler Vehículos Comerciales Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico City, Mexico 100.00
Detroit Diesel Corporation Detroit, USA 100.00
Detroit Diesel Remanufacturing LLC Detroit, USA 100.00
DTFC Holding GmbH Stuttgart, Germany 100.00 3
EvoBus (Schweiz) AG Winterthur, Switzerland 100.00
EvoBus (U.K.) Ltd. Coventry, United Kingdom 100.00
EvoBus Austria GmbH Wiener Neudorf, Austria 100.00
EvoBus Belgium N.V. Kobbegem-Asse, Belgium 100.00
EvoBus Ceská republika s.r.o. Prague, Czech Republic 100.00
EvoBus Danmark A/S Koege, Denmark 100.00
EvoBus France S.A.S.U. Sarcelles, France 100.00
EvoBus GmbH Stuttgart, Germany 100.00 3
EvoBus Ibérica, S.A.U. Sámano, Spain 100.00
EvoBus Italia S.p.A. Bomporto, Italy 100.00
EvoBus Nederland B.V. Nijkerk, Netherlands 100.00
EvoBus Polska Sp. z o.o. Wolica, Poland 100.00
Evobus Portugal, S.A. Mem Martins, Portugal 100.00
EvoBus Sverige AB Vetlanda, Sweden 100.00
Freightliner Custom Chassis Corporation Gaffney, USA 100.00
Gamma 1 Daimler Truck Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. OHG Schönefeld, Germany 89.90 3, 4
Gamma 2 Daimler Truck Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. OHG Schönefeld, Germany 89.90 3, 4
Gamma 3 Daimler Truck Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. OHG Schönefeld, Germany 89.90 3, 4
Gamma 4 Daimler Truck Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. OHG Schönefeld, Germany 89.90 3, 4
Grundstücksverwaltungsgesellschaft EvoBus GmbH & Co. OHG Schönefeld, Germany 89.88 3, 4
Mascot Truck Parts Canada Ltd (2017) Mississauga, Canada 100.00
Mercedes Benz Kamyon Finansman A.S. Istanbul, Turkey 100.00
Mercedes-Benz Broker Argentina S.A. Buenos Aires, Argentina 99.00
Mercedes-Benz Camiones y Buses Argentina SAU. Buenos Aires, Argentina 100.00
Mercedes-Benz Compañía Financiera Argentina S.A. Buenos Aires, Argentina 100.00
Mercedes-Benz Corretora de Seguros Ltda São Paulo, Brazil 100.00
Mercedes-Benz do Brasil Assessoria Comercial Ltda. São Paulo, Brazil 100.00
Mercedes-Benz do Brasil Ltda. São Bernardo do Campo, Brazil 100.00
Mercedes-Benz Leasing do Brasil Arrendamento Mercantil S.A. Barueri, Brazil 100.00
Mercedes-Benz Retail, S.A.U. Madrid, Spain 100.00
Mercedes-Benz Servicios S.A. Buenos Aires, Argentina 100.00
Mercedes-Benz Trucks & Buses Romania S.R.L. Bucharest, Romania 100.00
Mercedes-Benz Trucks Belgium Luxembourg NV/SA Brussels, Belgium 100.00
Mercedes-Benz Trucks Ceská republika s.r.o. Prague, Czech Republic 100.00
Mercedes-Benz Trucks Italia S.r.l. Rome, Italy 100.00
Mercedes-Benz Trucks Molsheim SASU Molsheim, France 100.00
Mercedes-Benz Trucks Österreich GmbH Eugendorf, Austria 100.00
Mercedes-Benz Trucks Portugal, S.A. Sintra, Portugal 100.00
Mercedes-Benz Trucks Schweiz AG Schlieren, Switzerland 100.00
Mercedes-Benz Trucks UK Limited Milton Keynes, United Kingdom 100.00
Name of the company Domicile, country/region Equity interests Footnote(s)
in percent1
Mercedes-Benz Türk A.S. Istanbul, Turkey 66.91
MFTA Canada, Inc. Toronto, Canada 100.00
Mitsubishi Fuso Bus Manufacturing Co., Ltd. Toyama, Japan 100.00
Mitsubishi Fuso Truck and Bus Corporation Kawasaki, Japan 89.29
MITSUBISHI FUSO TRUCK EUROPE - Sociedade Europeia de Automóveis, S.A. Tramagal, Portugal 100.00
Mitsubishi Fuso Truck of America, Inc. Logan Township, USA 100.00
PABCO Co., Ltd. Ebina, Japan 100.00
PT Daimler Commercial Vehicles Indonesia Jakarta, Indonesia 100.00
PT Daimler Commercial Vehicles Manufacturing Indonesia Bogor, Indonesia 100.00
Sandown Motor Holdings (Pty) Ltd Sandton, South Africa 100.00
SelecTrucks of America LLC Portland, USA 100.00
SelecTrucks of Toronto, Inc. Mississauga, Canada 100.00
Sterling Truck Corporation Portland, USA 100.00
Sumperská správa majetku k.s. Prague, Czech Republic 100.00 4
Thomas Built Buses of Canada Ltd. Calgary, Canada 100.00
Thomas Built Buses, Inc. High Point, USA 100.00
TORC Europe GmbH Stuttgart, Germany 100.00
TORC Robotics, Inc. Blacksburg, USA 84.92
Ukuvela Holdings Proprietary Limited Atlantis Industria, South Africa 100.00
Ukuvela Properties (Pty.) Ltd. Atlantis Industria, South Africa 100.00
Western Star Trucks Sales, Inc Portland, USA 100.00
II. Unconsolidated subsidiaries2, 6
cloudgeeks GmbH Cologne, Germany 85.00
CLOUDGEEKS, UNIPESSOAL LDA Lisbon, Portugal 100.00
Cúspide Daimler Trucks & Buses GmbH Leinfelden-Echterdingen, Germany 100.00
Daimler Automotive de Venezuela C.A. Valencia, Venezuela 100.00
Daimler Coaches North America LLC Wilmington, USA 100.00
Daimler Commercial Vehicles (Thailand) Ltd. Bangkok, Thailand 100.00
Daimler Commercial Vehicles Africa Ltd. Nairobi, Kenya 100.00
Daimler Commercial Vehicles MENA FZE Dubai, U.A.E. 100.00
Daimler Truck Gastronomie GmbH Gaggenau, Germany 100.00
Daimler Truck Immobilien Service GmbH Schönefeld, Germany 100.00
Daimler Truck Innovation Center India Private Limited Bangalore, India 100.00
Daimler Truck International Assignment Services LLC Wilmington, USA 100.00
Daimler Truck MENA Holding GmbH Leinfelden-Echterdingen, Germany 100.00
Daimler Truck Retail Polska Sp.zo.o. Warsaw, Poland 100.00
DTB Tech & Data Hub, Unipessoal Lda Tramagal, Portugal 100.00
EvoBus Reunion S. A. Le Port, France 99.17
EvoBus Russland OOO Moscow, Russian Federation 100.00
Fleetboard Logistics GmbH Volkach, Germany 100.00
Gamma 5 Daimler Truck Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH & Co. OHG Schönefeld, Germany 100.00 4
Mercedes ServiceCard Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH Kleinostheim, Germany 51.00
SelecTrucks Comércio de Veículos Ltda Mauá, Brazil 100.00
T.O.C (Schweiz) AG Schlieren, Switzerland 51.00
III. Joint operations accounted for using the equity method
North America Fuel Systems Remanufacturing LLC Kentwood, USA 50.00
IV. Joint ventures accounted for using the equity method
Beijing Foton Daimler Automotive Co., Ltd Beijing, China 50.00
cellcentric GmbH & Co. KG Kirchheim unter Teck, Germany 50.00
Commercial Vehicle Charging Europe BV Amsterdam, Netherlands 33.33
Greenlane Infrastructure, LLC Wilmington, USA 33.33
Polomex, S.A. de C.V. Garcia, Mexico 26.00
SelecTrucks of Houston LLC Houston, USA 50.00
SelecTrucks of Houston Wholesale LLC Houston, USA 50.00
SelecTrucks of Omaha LLC Council Bluffs, USA 50.00
Name of the company Domicile, country/region Equity interests Footnote(s)
in percent1
V. Associated companies accounted for using the equity method
FUSO LAND TRANSPORT & Co. Ltd. Kawasaki, Japan 21.67
Kanagawa Mitsubishi Fuso Truck & Bus Sales Co., Ltd. Yokohama, Japan 43.83
Okayama Mitsubishi Fuso Truck & Bus Sales Co., Ltd. Okayamashi, Japan 50.00
P.T. Krama Yudha Tiga Berlian Motors Jakarta, Indonesia 30.00
P.T. Mitsubishi Krama Yudha Motors and Manufacturing Jakarta, Indonesia 32.28
Toll4Europe GmbH Munich, Germany 15.00
VI. Joint operations, joint ventures, associated companies and substantial
other investments accounted for at (amortized) cost2, 6
cellcentric Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH Kirchheim unter Teck, Germany 50.00
Circulo Cerrado S.A. de Ahorro para Fines Determinados Buenos Aires, Argentina 25.95
COBUS Industries GmbH Wiesbaden, Germany 40.82
H2 Mobility Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG Berlin, Germany 1.70
Mercedes ServiceCard GmbH & Co. KG Kleinostheim, Germany 51.00
MFTB Taiwan Co., Ltd. Taipei, Taiwan 33.40
National Automobile Industry Company Ltd. Jeddah, Saudi Arabia 26.00
Omnibus Hungária Kereskedelmi Kft. Budapest, Hungary 33.33
Omuta Unso Co., Ltd. Omuta, Japan 33.51
TASIAP GmbH Stuttgart, Germany 60.00
Toyo Kotsu Co., Ltd. Sannoseki, Japan 28.20
VII. Significant other investments accounted for at Fair Value6
G2VP I, LLC Menlo Park, USA 5.71
IVU Traffic Technologies AG Berlin, Germany 5.25
Manz AG Reutlingen, Germany 9.08
Trucks Venture Fund 1, LP Lewes, USA 20.76
1 Shareholding pursuant to Section 16 of the German Stock Corporation Act (“AktG”).
2 For the accounting of unconsolidated subsidiaries, joint operations, joint ventures and associated companies, refer to Note 1. General information and
significant accounting policies.
3 Qualification for exception pursuant to Section 264 Subsection 3 and Section 264b of the German Commercial Code (“HGB”).
4 Daimler Truck Holding AG or one or several consolidated subsidiaries is/are the partner(s) with unlimited liability.
5 Control due to economic circumstances.
6 Information on equity and earnings and information on investments pursuant to Section 313 Subsection 2 No. 4 of the German Commercial Code (“HGB”)
has been omitted since, according to Section 313 Subsection 3 Sentence 4 of the HGB, such information is of minor relevance for a fair presentation of the
profitability, liquidity and capital resources, or financial position of the Daimler Truck Group.
Further Information
Further Information
Responsibility Statement 281
Independent Auditor’s Report 282
Limited Assurance Report of
the Independent Auditor regarding the
Non-Financial Statement of the Group 290
Further Information 292
Responsibility Statement
To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the appli-
cable reporting principles, the consolidated financial state-
ments give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, finan-
cial position, cash flows and profit or loss of the Daimler Truck
Group, and the Daimler Truck Group management report,
which has been combined with the management report for
Daimler Truck Holding AG, includes a fair review of the devel-
opment and performance of the business and the position of
the Daimler Truck Group, together with a description of the
principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected
development of the Daimler Truck Group.
Leinfelden-Echterdingen, March 9, 2023
Martin Daum Jochen Goetz
Karin Rådström John O’Leary
Karl Deppen Stephan Unger
Dr. Andreas Gorbach Jürgen Hartwig
Independent Auditor’s Report
To Daimler Truck Holding AG, Stuttgart
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated
Pursuant to Section 322 paragraph 3 sentence1 HGB [Han-
Financial Statements and of the delsgesetzbuch: German Commercial Code] we declare that
our audit has not led to any reservations relating to the legal
Combined Management Report
compliance of the consolidated financial statements and of the
combined management report.
Opinions
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Basis for the Opinions
Daimler Truck Holding AG, Stuttgart, and its subsidiaries (the We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial state-
Group), which comprise the consolidated statement of finan- ments and of the combined management report in accordance
cial position as of December 31, 2022, and the consolidated with Section 317 HGB and the EU Audit Regulation (No.
statement of income, consolidated statement of comprehen- 537/2014; referred to subsequently as the “EU Audit Regula-
sive income/loss, consolidated statement of changes in equity tion”) and in compliance with German Generally Accepted
and consolidated statement of cash flows for the financial year Standards for Financial Statement Audits promulgated by the
from January1 to December 31, 2022 and notes to the consoli- Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of Public Auditors in
dated financial statements, including a summary of significant Germany] (IDW). Our responsibilities under those require-
accounting policies. In addition, we have audited the report on ments, principles and standards are further described in the
the situation of the Company and the Group (hereinafter “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated
referred to as the ”combined management report”) of Daimler Financial Statements and of the Combined Management
Truck Group AG for the financial year from January1 to Decem- Report” section of our auditor’s report. We are independent of
ber 31, 2022. the group entities in accordance with the requirements of
European law and German commercial and professional law,
In accordance with the German legal regulations, we have not and we have fulfilled our other German professional responsi-
audited the contents of the elements of the combined manage- bilities in accordance with these requirements. In addition, in
ment report referred to in the “Other information” section of accordance with Article10 paragraph 2 letter f) of the EU Audit
our auditor’s report. Regulation, we declare that we have not provided non-audit
services prohibited under Article 5 paragraph1 of the EU Audit
In our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained in the Regulation. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is
audit sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions
on the consolidated financial statements and on the combined
– the accompanying consolidated financial statements comply, management report.
in all material respects, with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU,
and the additional requirements of German commercial law Key Audit Matters in the Audit of the
pursuant to Section 315e paragraph 1 HGB and, in compli- Consolidated Financial Statements
ance with these requirements, give a true and fair view of Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional
the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Group as of judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the con-
December 31, 2022, and of its financial performance for the solidated financial statements for the financial year from Janu-
financial year from January1 to December 31, 2022 and ary1 to December 31, 2022. These matters were addressed in
the context of our audit of the consolidated financial state-
– the accompanying combined management report as a whole ments as a whole, and, in forming our opinion thereon, we do
provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position. In all not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
material respects, the combined management report is con-
sistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies
with German legal requirements and appropriately presents
the opportunities and risks of future development. Our opin-
ion on the combined management report does not cover the
elements of the combined management report referred to in
the “Other information” section of our auditor’s report.
Loss Allowances on Receivables from Financial Services Our audit approach
We obtained a comprehensive understanding of the develop-
Please refer with regard to the accounting policies applied to ment of the portfolios, the associated counterparty default
the notes to the consolidated financial statements in risks and the processes for identifying, managing, monitoring
E
Note 1 “General Information and significant accounting and measuring credit risks with the help of credit specialists,
E
policies”, Note 2 “Accounting estimates and management by inspecting analyses and risk reports, interrogations, review
E
judgements”, Note 15 “Receivables from financial ser- of guidelines and working instructions, checking the defined
E
vices”, Note 34 “Management of financial risks” and to the methods and their implementation and checking and walking
E
combined management report in the chapter entitled Risk through the validation process and the individual validation
and Opportunity Report in the section entitled “Financial risks reports.
and opportunities”.
We audited the appropriateness and effectiveness of the inter-
The risk for the consolidated financial statements nal control system with regard to the risk classification pro-
Receivables from financial services (EUR 22,971 million) result- cess and risk models and the identification of the factors
ing from the financing and leasing activities of the Daimler determining the value and the loss allowances, also by
Truck Group include receivables from sales financing with cus- rechecking the calculations. To this end, we also evaluated the
tomers, receivables from sales financing with dealers and relevant IT systems and internal procedures. In addition to the
receivables from finance lease contracts. The loss allowances audit by our IT specialists of the propriety of the IT systems
on these receivables amounts at the reporting date to EUR affected and related interfaces to ensure the completeness
546 million. and correctness of the data, the audit also included the audit
of automatic controls for data entry and data processing.
The calculation of the loss allowances is based on expected
credit losses and therefore also includes expectations regard- The main focus of our audit was the evaluation of the methodi-
ing the future. The expected credit losses are recognised by cal approach in the definition of risk categories and the deter-
means of a three-parameter procedure for the determination mination of default probabilities and loss rates that are derived
of loss allowances. At the same time, various factors determin- from historical data. We obtained an understanding of this
ing the value, such as the determination of statistical default based on a risk-oriented selection of credit portfolios. We sat-
probabilities and loss rates, the possible amount receivable on isfied ourselves with regard to the appropriateness of signifi-
default, the parameter transfer criteria that are related to a cant risk parameters based on the results of a validation per-
significant change in the default risk of borrowers, and the cal- formed by Daimler Truck Financial Services and evaluated the
culation of future cash flows are taken into account. Further- adjustments of the parameters to the current market situation.
more, macroeconomic scenarios (basis scenarios, optimistic In this connection, we audited the data supporting the valida-
and pessimistic scenarios), the identification of which to a high tions on the basis of a conscious sample.
degree includes discretionary judgements and uncertainties,
flow into the calculation. The risk for the financial statements Our observations
is that the creditworthiness of customers and future cash The methodical approach, the procedures and the processes
flows are misjudged or that the calculation of the risk provision to calculate the loss allowances and the assumptions and risk
parameters is incorrect so that loss allowances are not rec- parameters flowing into the measurement are appropriate to
ognised or are insufficient. identify the credit risks in good time and to determine the rec-
ognition of adequate loss allowances.
Measurement of the Receivables from Financial Services Our audit approach
in Conjunction with the Acquisition of Truck and Bus- With the help of our own measurement specialists, we among
related Financial Services Companies and Business Units other things assessed the propriety of the main assumptions
and the measurement methods. For this purpose, we first of all
Please refer with regard to the accounting policies applied to obtained an understanding of the acquisition transactions by
the notes to the consolidated financial statements in questioning the staff in the finance area and assessing the rel-
E
Note 1 “General Information and significant accounting evant contracts.
E
policies”, Note 2 “Accounting estimates and management
E
judgements”, Note 4 “Business Combinations” and to the We evaluated the competence, capabilities and objectivity of
E
combined management report in the chapter entitled Eco- the independent appraiser engaged by the Daimler Truck
nomic Conditions and Business Development. Group. We reviewed the data basis for the measurement of the
receivables from financial services to the underlying contracts
The risk for the consolidated financial statements and databases with the help of local unit auditors. Our mea-
In the financial year 2022, the Daimler Truck Group acquired surement specialists reviewed the measurement methods that
truck and bus-related financial services companies and busi- were applied with regard to the measurement of the principles
ness units from Mercedes-Benz Group AG. The total compen- and the main underlying assumptions. To evaluate the method-
sation transferred amounts altogether to EUR 2,106 million. ically and mathematically correct implementation of the mea-
The assets acquired in connection with the business combina- surement methods, we obtained an understanding of the mea-
tions mainly consist of receivables from financial services. surement performed by the Company by performing our own
calculations.
The acquired receivables from financial services are rec-
ognised in accordance with IFRS 3 at the fair value at the Our observations
acquisition date. The Daimler Truck Group made use of an The approach providing the basis for the measurement of the
external appraiser in order to measure the acquired receiv- acquired receivables from financial services is proper and is
ables from financial services. consistent with the accounting and measurement principles
that are to be applied. The data basis providing the basis for
The measurement of the acquired receivables from financial the measurement has been properly determined and the main
services is complex and is based on discretionary assumptions assumptions that are to be applied are appropriate.
by the legal representatives. The main assumptions with
regard to the relate to the weighted capital costs (WACC –
Weighted Average Cost of Capital) and the expected credit
losses.
The risk for the consolidated financial statements is that the
data basis and the assumptions for the measurement of the
receivables from financial services are imprecise and that the
receivables from financial services are erroneously measured.
Measurement of the Provision for Product Warranties Risks from EU antitrust proceedings
Please refer with regard to the accounting policies applied to Please refer with regard to the accounting policies applied to
the notes to the consolidated financial statements in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in
E E
Note 1 “General Information and significant accounting Note 2 “Accounting estimates and management judge-
E E E
policies”, Note 2 “Accounting estimates and management ments”, Note 24 “Provisions for other risks”, Note 31
E
judgements”, Note 24 “Provisions for other risks” and to “Legal proceedings” and to the combined management report
E E
the combined management report in the chapter entitled in the chapter entitled Risk and opportunity report in the
Risk and opportunity report in the section entitled “Legal and section entitled “Legal and tax risks and opportunities”.
tax risks and opportunities”.
The risk for the consolidated financial statements
The risk for the consolidated financial statements The Daimler Truck Group is exposed to a large number of dam-
The provision for product warranties and goodwill costs age claims in various countries in connection with EU antitrust
amounts to €1,952 million and is included in the provisions for proceedings. Hereby truck customers raise damage claims fol-
other risks. lowing the imposition of fines by the European Commission
against Mercedes-Benz Group AG and other truck manufactur-
The Daimler Truck Group grants various kinds of product guar- ers in July 2016. The fine imposed against Mercedes-Benz
antees, or grants various kinds of product warranties, which Group AG amounted at the time to €1.09 billion and was paid
are entered into for the error-free functioning of a sold product in full in 2016.
or service rendered over a defined period of time. In order to
confirm or reassess future guarantee, warranty and goodwill The risk for the consolidated financial statements is that the
expenses, continuously updated information on the nature and recording of any future damage claims in connection with EU
volume and the remedying of faults that have occurred is antitrust proceedings against the Daimler Truck Group is not
recorded and analysed at the level of the business unit, model completely and properly measured.
series, damage key and sales year.
Our audit approach
Significant uncertainty for the calculation of the provision In order to audit the provision for damage claims in connection
arises with regard to the future loss event. The risk for the con- with EU antitrust proceedings against the Daimler Truck Group,
solidated financial statements is that the provision is not prop- we among other things questioned the Chairman of the Super-
erly measured. visory Board, the legal representatives and contact partners in
the financial and legal areas. We furthermore obtained infor-
Our audit approach mation from the attorneys and external advisors acting for the
Our audit procedures included among other things the evalua- Daimler Truck Group and evaluated the underlying documents.
tion of the process to calculate the provision for product war-
ranties and the evaluation of the relevant assumptions and The written assessment of the legal representatives was made
their derivation for the measurement of the provision. These available to us by the Company. As of the reporting date, evalu-
include primarily assumptions on expected susceptibility to ations of the assessment of the risks in connection with the
and the course of damage, and in addition the monetary value antitrust proceedings against the Daimler Truck Group, which
of the damage per vehicle based on actual warranty, guarantee support the assessment of the risks by the legal representa-
and goodwill losses. Based on historical analyses, we assessed tives, were available from external attorneys.
the accuracy of the forecasts of past warranty, guarantee and
goodwill costs. We also checked that updated assessments of Finally, we evaluated the appropriateness of the description of
the future repair costs and procedures were taken into the aforementioned legal proceedings in the notes to the con-
account. We obtained an understanding for the underlying solidated financial statements.
numbers of vehicles through the actual unit sales.
Our observations
Our observations The discretionary assessments and assumptions of the legal
The calculation methods and the assumptions made are proper. representatives are proper.
Other information Responsibilities of the Legal Representatives and
The legal representatives and the Supervisory Board are the Supervisory Board for the Consolidated Financial
responsible for the other information. The other information Statements and the Combined Management Report
comprises the following elements of the combined manage- The legal representatives are responsible for the preparation of
ment report, the content of which we have not audited: the consolidated financial statements that comply, in all mate-
rial respects, with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the addi-
– the non-financial statement of the group, which is included tional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to
in the section of the combined management report entitled Section 315e paragraph1 HGB and that the consolidated finan-
“Sustainability at Daimler Truck”, cial statements, in compliance with these requirements, give a
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position
– the combined declaration of the Company and the Group on and financial performance of the Group.
corporate management, which is referred to in the com-
bined management report, and In addition, the legal representatives are responsible for such
internal control as they have determined necessary to enable
– the disclosures included in the combined management the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are
report marked as extraneous to management reports and free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud (i.e.,
unaudited. fraudulent financial reporting and misappropriation of assets)
or error.
The other information also includes the remaining parts of the
annual report. The other information does not comprise the In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the legal
consolidated financial statements, the audited disclosures in representatives are responsible for assessing the Group’s abil-
the combined management report and our related auditor’s ity to continue as a going concern. They also have the respon-
report. sibility for disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern. In addition, they are responsible for financial report-
Our opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on ing based on the going concern basis of accounting unless
the combined management report do not cover the other infor- there is an intention to liquidate the Group or to cease opera-
mation, and consequently we do not express an opinion or any tions, or there is no realistic alternative but to do so.
other form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Furthermore, the legal representatives are responsible for the
In connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read the preparation of the combined management report that, as a
other information and, in so doing, to consider whether the whole, provides an appropriate view of the Group`s position
other information and is, in all material respects, consistent with the consoli-
dated financial statements, complies with German legal
– is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial requirements, and appropriately presents the opportunities
statements, with the combined management report informa- and risks of future development. In addition, the legal repre-
tion audited for content or our knowledge obtained in the sentatives are responsible for such arrangements and mea-
audit, or sures (systems) as they have considered necessary to enable
the preparation of a combined management report that is in
– otherwise appears to be materially misstated. accordance with the applicable German legal requirements,
and to be able to provide sufficient appropriate evidence for
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that the assertions in the combined management report.
there is a material misstatement of this other information, we
are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the
this regard. Group`s financial reporting process for the preparation of the
consolidated financial statements and of the combined man-
agement report.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated – Conclude on the appropriateness of the use by the legal rep-
Financial Statements and of the Combined Management resentatives of the going concern basis of accounting and,
Report based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may
whether the consolidated financial state-ments as a whole are cast significant doubt on the Group`s ability to continue as a
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty
and whether the combined management report as a whole pro- exists, we are required to draw attention in the auditor’s
vides an appropriate view of the Group´s position and, in all report to the related disclosures in the consolidated finan-
material respects, is consistent with the consolidated financial cial statements and in the combined management report or,
statements and the knowledge obtained in the audit, complies if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our respective
with the German legal requirements and appropriately pres- opinions. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence
ents the opportunities and risks of future development, as well obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However,
as to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions on future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to
the consolidated financial statements and on the combined be able to continue as a going concern.
management report.
– Evaluate the presentation, structure and content of the con-
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a solidated financial statements, including the disclosures,
guarantee, that an audit conducted in accordance with Section and whether the consolidated financial statements present
317 HGB and the EU Audit Regulation and in compliance with the underlying transactions and events in a manner that the
German Generally Accepted Standards for Financial Statement consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of
Audits promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [Insti- the assets, liabilities, financial position and financial perfor-
tute of Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW) will always detect a mance of the Group in compliance with German Legally
material mis-statement. Misstatements can arise from fraud or Required Accounting Principles.
error and are considered material if, individually or in the
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the – Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these con- financial information of the entities or business activities
solidated financial statements and this combined management within the Group to express opinions on the consolidated
report. financial statements and on the group management report.
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and perfor-
We exercise professional judgement and maintain professional mance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for
scepticism throughout the audit. We also our opinions.
– Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the – Evaluate the consistency of the combined management
consolidated financial statements and of the combined man- report with the consolidated financial statements, its confor-
agement report, whether due to fraud or error, design and mity with [German] law, and the view of the Group’s position
perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and it provides.
obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a – Perform audit procedures on the prospective information
material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than presented by the legal representatives in the combined man-
the risk of not detecting a material misstatement or one agement report. On the basis of sufficient appropriate audit
resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, evidence, we evaluate, in particular, the significant assump-
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of tions used by the legal representatives as a basis for the pro-
internal controls. spective information and evaluate the proper derivation of
the prospective information from these assumptions. We do
– Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the not express a separate opinion on the prospective informa-
audit of the consolidated financial statements and of tion and on the assumptions used as a basis. There is a sub-
arrangements and measures (systems) relevant to the audit stantial unavoidable risk that future events will differ materi-
of the combined management report in order to design audit ally from the prospective information.
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effec-
tiveness of these systems.
– Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used by
the legal representatives and the reasonableness of esti-
mates made by the legal representatives and related disclo-
sures.
Other Legal and Regulatory
We communicate with those charged with governance regard-
ing, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the Requirements
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant
deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
Report on the Assurance on the Electronic Rendering of
We also provide those charged with governance with a state- the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Combined
ment that we have complied with the relevant independence Management Report Prepared for Publication Purposes in
requirements and communicate with them all relationships Accordance with Section 317 paragraph 3a HGB
and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on
our independence, and where applicable, the actions taken or We have performed assurance work in accordance with Sec-
safeguards applied to eliminate independence threats. tion 317 paragraph 3a HGB to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the rendering of the consolidated financial
From the matters communicated with those charged with gov- statements and the combined management report (hereinafter
ernance, we determine those matters that were of most signifi- the “ESEF documents”) contained in the file that can be down-
cance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of loaded by the issuer from the electronic client portal with
the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We access protection “dthag-2022-12-31-de.zip” (SHA256-Hash-
describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless laws or wert: a7a57572bae6293732337e6b24bb56d4cf71665c-
other legal regulations preclude public disclosure of the matter. 9f4052a56653a96d80a46c4f) made available and prepared for
publication purposes complies in all material respects with the
requirements of Section 328 (1) HGB for the electronic report-
ing format (“ESEF format”). In accordance with German legal
requirements, this assurance work extends only to the conver-
sion of the information contained in the consolidated financial
statements and the combined management report into the
ESEF format and therefore relates neither to the information
contained in these renderings nor to any other information
contained in the file identified above.
In our opinion, the rendering of the consolidated financial
statements and the combined management report contained
in the electronic file and made available for publication pur-
poses complies in all material respects with the requirements
of Section 328 paragraph1 HGB for the electronic reporting
format. Beyond this assurance opinion and our audit opinion
on the accompanying consolidated financial statements and
the accompanying combined management report for the finan-
cial year from January1 to December 31, 2022 contained in the
“Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
and the Combined Management Report” above, we do not
express any assurance opinion on the information contained
within these renderings or on the other information contained
in the file identified above.
We conducted our assurance work on the rendering of the con-
solidated financial statements and of the combined manage-
ment reports contained in the file and identified above in
accordance with Section 317 paragraph 3a HGB and the IDW
Assurance Standard: Assurance Work on the Electronic Ren-
dering of Financial Statements and Management Reports Pre-
pared for Publication Purposes in accordance with Section 317
paragraph 3a HGB (IDW PS 410 (06.2022) conducive to the
understanding of the report at an international level and the
International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000
(Revised). Our responsibility in accordance therewith is further
described below. Our audit firm applies IDW Standard on Qual-
ity Management1: Requirements for Quality Management in
Audit Firms (IDW QS1).
The Company’s legal representatives are responsible for the Further Information pursuant to Article 10 of the
preparation of the ESEF documents including the electronic EU Audit Regulation
rendering of the consolidated financial statements and the We were elected as group auditor at the Annual Shareholder’s
combined management report in accordance with Section 328 Meeting held on June 22, 2022. We were engaged by the
paragraph1 sentence 4 item1 HGB and for the tagging of the Supervisory Board on July 5, 2022. We have been the group
consolidated financial statements in accordance with Section auditor of Daimler Truck Holding AG without interruption since
328 paragraph1 sentence 4 item 2 HGB. the financial year 2021.
In addition, the Company’s legal representatives are responsi- We declare that the opinions expressed in this auditor’s report
ble for such internal control that they have considered neces- are consistent with the additional report to the audit commit-
sary to enable the preparation of ESEF documents that are tee pursuant to Article11 of the EU Audit Regulation (long-form
free from material intentional or unintentional non-compliance audit report).
with the requirements of Section 328 paragraph1 HGB for the
electronic reporting format.
Other matter –
The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the pro- Use of the Auditor’s Report
cess of preparing the ESEF documents as part of the financial
reporting process.
Our auditor´s report must always be read together with the
Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether audited consolidated financial statements and the audited
the ESEF documents are free from material intentional or unin- group management report as well as the examined ESEF docu-
tentional non-compliance with the requirements of Section ments. The consolidated financial statements and group man-
328 paragraph1 HGB. We exercise professional judgement and agement report converted to the ESEF format – including the
maintain professional scepticism throughout the assurance versions to be entered in the company register – are merely
work. We also electronic renderings of the audited consolidated financial
statements and the audited group management report and do
– Identify and assess the risks of material intentional or unin- not take their place. In particular, the ESEF report and our
tentional non-compliance with the requirements of Section assurance opinion contained therein are to be used solely
328 paragraph1 HGB, design and perform assurance proce- together with the examined ESEF documents made available in
dures responsive to those risks, and obtain assurance evi- electronic form.
dence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
our assurance opinion.
German Public Auditor Responsible for
– Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the the Engagement
assurance on the ESEF documents in order to design assur-
ance procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances,
but not for the purpose of expressing an assurance opinion The German Public Auditor responsible for the engagement is
on the effectiveness of these controls. Michael Mokler.
– Evaluate the technical validity of the ESEF documents, i.e.
whether the file made available containing the ESEF docu- Stuttgart, March 9, 2023
ments meets the requirements of the Delegated Regulation
(EU) 2019/815, as amended as at the reporting date, on the KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
technical specification for this electronic file.
[Original German version signed by:]
– Evaluate whether the ESEF documents provide an XHTML
rendering with content equivalent to the audited consoli- Pritzer Mokler
dated financial statements and the audited combined man- Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer
agement report. [German Public Auditor] [German Public Auditor]
– Evaluate whether the tagging of the ESEF documents with
Inline XBRL technology (iXBRL) in accordance with the
requirements of Articles 4 and 6 of the Delegated Regulation
(EU) 2019/815, as amended as at the reporting date,
enables an appropriate and complete machine-readable
XBRL copy of the XHTML rendering.
Limited Assurance Report of
the Independent Auditor regarding the
Non-Financial Statement of the Group1
To the Supervisory Board of
The EU Taxonomy Regulation and the Delegated Acts issued
Daimler Truck Holding AG, Stuttgart thereunder contain wording and terms that are still subject to
considerable interpretation uncertainties and for which clarifi-
cations have not yet been published in every case. Therefore,
We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the management has disclosed their interpretation of the EU Tax-
non-financial statement of the Group of Daimler Truck Holding onomy Regulation and the Delegated Acts adopted thereunder
E
AG, Stuttgart (further “company” or “Daimler Truck”) in the in section EU-Taxonomy of the non-financial statement of
E
combined management report in the section Sustainability the Group. They are responsible for the defensibility of this
E
at Daimler Truck, as well as on the sections Business interpretation. Due to the immanent risk that indeterminate
E
model and Risk and opportunities report in the combined legal terms may be interpreted differently, the legal conformity
management report qualifying as part of this statement (further of the interpretation is subject to uncertainties.
“non-financial statement of the Group”) for the period from Jan-
uary 1 to December 31, 2022. The contents of the non-financial Independence and Quality Assurance of the Assurance
E
statement of the Group in the section Sustainability at Practitioner’s firm
Daimler Truck are marked with the following symbols:. ▾▴. We have complied with the independence and quality assur-
ance requirements set out in the national legal provisions and
Responsibilities of Management professional pronouncements, in particular the Professional
Management of the parent company is responsible for the Code for German Public Auditors and Chartered Accountants
preparation of the non-financial statement of the Group in (in Germany) and the quality assurance standard of the Ger-
accordance with Sections 315c in conjunction with 289c to man Institute of Public Auditors (Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer,
289e HGB [“Handelsgesetzbuch”: German Commercial Code] IDW) regarding quality assurance requirements in audit prac-
and Article 8 of REGULATION (EU) 2020/852 OF THE EURO- tice (IDW QS1).
PEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of18. June 2020 on
establishing a framework to facilitate sustainable investment Responsibility of the Assurance Practitioner
and amending Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 (hereinafter the “EU Our responsibility is to express a conclusion with limited assur-
Taxonomy Regulation”) and the Delegated Acts adopted there- ance on the non-financial statement of the Group based on our
under, as well as for making their own interpretation of the assurance engagement.
wording and terms contained in the EU Taxonomy Regulation
and the delegated acts adopted thereunder as set out in sec- We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with
tion “EU-Taxonomy” of the non-financial statement of the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE)
Group. 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or
Reviews of Historical Financial Information” issued by the
This responsibility includes the selection and application of IAASB. This standard requires that we plan and perform the
appropriate non-financial reporting methods and making assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance about
assumptions and estimates about individual non-financial dis- whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us
closures of the group that are reasonable in the circumstances. to believe that the company’s non-financial statement, are not
Furthermore, management is responsible for such internal prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with Sec-
control as they consider necessary to enable the preparation tions 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB and the EU
of a non-financial statement of the Group that is free from Taxonomy Regulation and the Delegated Acts issued thereun-
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. der as well as the interpretation by management disclosed in
E
section EU-Taxonomy of the non-financial statement of
the Group.
1 Our engagement applied to the German version of the Report 2022.
This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in
German, whereas the German text is authoritative.
In a limited assurance engagement, the procedures performed Assurance Opinion
are less extensive than in a reasonable assurance engagement, Based on the assurance procedures performed and the evi-
and accordingly, a substantially lower level of assurance is dence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes
obtained. The selection of the assurance procedures is subject us to believe that the non-financial statement of the Group of
to the professional judgment of the assurance practitioner. Daimler Truck Holding AG, Stuttgart for the period from Janu-
ary1 to December 31, 2022 has not been prepared, in all mate-
– In the course of our assurance engagement we have, among rial respects, in accordance with Sections 315c in conjunction
other things, performed the following assurance procedures with 289c to 289e HGB and the EU Taxonomy Regulation and
and other activities: the Delegated Acts issued thereunder as well as the interpreta-
E
tion by management as disclosed in section EU-Taxonomy
– Inquiries of group-level personnel responsible for the materi- of the non-financial statement of the Group.
ality analysis in order to understand the processes for deter-
mining material topics and respective reporting boundaries Restriction of Use
of Daimler Truck Holding AG. This assurance report is solely addressed to the Supervisory
Board of Daimler Truck Holding AG, Stuttgart.
– A risk assessment, including media research, to identify rel-
evant information on the Group’s sustainability performance Our assignment for Daimler Truck Holding AG, Stuttgart, and
during the reporting period. professional liability is governed by the General Engagement
Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer (German Public Auditors) and
– Reviewing the suitability of internally developed reporting Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften (German Public Audit
criteria. Firms) (Allgemeine Auftragsbedingungen für Wirtschaftsprüfer
und Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften) in the version dated
w
– Evaluation of the design and the implementation of systems January 1, 2017 ( https://www.kpmg.de/bescheinigungen/
and processes for the collection, processing and monitoring lib/aab_english.pdf). By reading and using the information con-
of disclosures, including data consolidation, on environmen- tained in this assurance report, each recipient confirms having
tal, employee and social matters, respect for human rights, taken note of provisions of the General Engagement Terms
combating corruption and bribery well as the EU Taxonomy (including the limitation of our liability for negligence to
Regulation indicators. EUR 4 million as stipulated in No. 9) and accepts the validity of
the attached General Engagement Terms with respect to us.
– Inquiries of group-level personnel responsible for determin-
ing disclosures on concepts, due diligence processes,
results and risks, performing internal control functions and Stuttgart, 9 March 2023
consolidating disclosures.
KPMG AG
– Inspection of selected internal and external documents. Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
– Analytical procedures for the evaluation of data and of the
trends of quantitative disclosures as reported at group level
by all sites. Mokler Herold
Wirtschaftsprüfer
– Assessment of the local data collection and reporting pro- [German Public Auditor]
cesses and the reliability of the reported data by sampling in
Mannheim (Germany) and Sao Bernardo do Campo (Brazil).
– Assessment of the overall presentation of the disclosures.
– Evaluation of the process for the identification of taxono-
my-eligible and taxonomy-aligned economic activities and
the corresponding disclosures in the non-financial statement
of the Group.
In determining the disclosures in accordance with Article 8 of
the EU Taxonomy Regulation, management is required to inter-
pret undefined legal terms. Due to the immanent risk that
undefined legal terms may be interpreted differently, the legal
conformity of their interpretation and, accordingly, our assur-
ance engagement thereon are subject to uncertainties.
Further Information
Information on the Internet
Specific information on our share and profitability development
w
can be found on our website daimlertruck.com under the
heading “Investors”. The Annual and Interim Reports and the
Company Financial Statements of Daimler Truck Holding AG are
and can be accessed there.
You can also find topical reports, presentations, an overview
of various key figures, information on our share price and other
services.
w
daimlertruck.com/en/investors
For sustainability reasons, the Annual and Interim Reports and
the Financial Statements are not printed in hard copy. We make
all Annual and Interim Reports available online and as PDF files
to download.
w
daimlertruck.com/en/investors/reports/financial-reports
Daimler Truck Holding AG Investor Relations
70771 Leinfelden-Echterdingen ir@daimlertruck.com
Tel. +49 711 8485 0
www.daimlertruck.com
Daimler Truck Holding AG Further information on
70771 Leinfelden-Echterdingen Daimler Truck is available at
Germany www.daimlertruck.com