OPEN
POWER
FOR A
BRIGHTER
FUTURE.
WE EMPOWER
SUSTAINABLE
PROGRESS.
Sustainability Report
2022
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement prepared in accordance
We live in an increasingly interconnected world
where the companies that will continue to thrive
in the long run will be those able to act collectively,
creating and sharing value with all stakeholders.
This is what the graphic design of the Enel Group's
Corporate Reporting expresses through the development
of connected and balanced forms. Elements inspired
by nature, whose movement offers a narration of harmony,
growth and evolution.
OPEN
POWER
FOR A
BRIGHTER
FUTURE.
WE EMPOWER
SUSTAINABLE
PROGRESS.
Sustainability Report
2022
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement prepared in accordance
ESOPRUP
Enel is Open Power
VISION
Open Power to tackle some
of the world’s biggest
challenges.
POSITIONING
Open Power
PRINCIPLES OF CONDUCT
• Make decisions in daily activities and take
responsibility for them.
• Share information, being willing to collaborate
and open to the contribution of others.
• Follow through with commitments, pursuing activities
with determination and passion.
• Change priorities rapidly if the situation evolves.
• Get results by aiming for excellence.
• Adopt and promote safe behavior and move proactively
to improve conditions for health, safety and well-being.
• Work for the integration of all, recognizing and leveraging
individual diversity (culture, gender, age, disabilities,
personality, etc.).
• Work focusing on satisfying customers and/or coworkers,
acting effectively and rapidly.
• Propose new solution and do not give up when faced
with obstacles or failure.
• Recognize merit in co-workers and give feedback
that can improve their contribution.
MISSION
• Open access to electricity
for more people.
• Open the world of energy
VALUES
to new technology.
• Open up to new uses of energy. • Trust
• Open up to new ways of managing • Proactivity
energy for people. • Responsibility
• Open up to new partnerships. • Innovation
Index 1.
Letter to
stakeholders
60 years of future
and energy
2.
We empower
sustainable progress
2.1 Our sustainable business
model and value creation 13
2.2 Our strategy for
sustainable progress 18
2.3 Our governance
of sustainability 29
2.4 Our materiality analysis
and priorities for action 34
2.5 Our commitment
to continuous improvement 36
• Sustainable investments 36
• S ustainability-linked finance 37
• European Taxonomy
Regulation 39
• Sustainability ratings,
indices and benchmarks 42
• Advisory panel 44
3.
Materiality
analysis
WEIV
YNAPMOC
8
Enel’s Sustainability Report sets out
the commitments and results achieved
in ESG (Environmental, Social and
Governance) topics, in light also of its
stakeholders’ expectations
It starts with a message to stakeholders from the
CEO and the Chairman, followed by the We empower
sustainable progess section, which outlines the Company
as a whole, its business model and main performance
indicators, the ESG context in which it operates, the
materiality analysis, the main objectives of the 2023-2025
Sustainability Plan, its governance and organization of
sustainability, the role of sustainability-linked finance,
its positioning in sustainability ratings, indices and
benchmarks, as well as information on European
taxonomy.
10
The Our performance section is divided by topic and
outlines the results and objectives of the Sustainability
Plan. Each topic is introduced by the “sustainability
dashboard”, which summarizes the key commitments,
as well as their state of progress and contribution to the
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The final appendix sets out: (i) the criteria used in drafting
the report; (ii) the main quantitative indicators relating to
sustainability performance (“Sustainability Statement”);
iii) the Content Indexes which provide simplified keys to
interpretation in relation to GRI, SASB, TCFD, WEF, PAI
and human rights; (iv) the European Taxonomy reporting,
the Green Bond Report and the Sustainability-Linked
Financing Report.
• Integrated Annual Report 2022
• Report and financial statements
at December 31, 2022
Guide to navigating the document
To make it easier to view, in addition to hyperlinks, 46
the document has interactions to assist with navigation.
Back to main menu Search
Materiality analysis process
Skip to... Print
and results for 2022 48
4. 5.
Our
performance
5.1 Methodological note 448
5.2 Sustainability Statement:
performance indicators 456
5.3 Content Index 500
• GRI 500
• SASB 510
• TCFD 513
• EUROPEAN COMMISSION
GUIDELINES ON REPORTING
CLIMATE-RELATED
INFORMATION 514
• WEF 515
• SUSTAINABLE FINANCE
DISCLOSURE
REGULATION (PAI) 517
• HUMAN RIGHTS 523
5.4 Our position on and
commitment to the
European Taxonomy 528
Other documents
Green Bond Report 564
Sustainability-Linked
Financing Report 580
WEIV
CIPOT
Appendix
82 446
4.1 Zero emissions ambition 84
4.2 Clean electrification 158
• Renewable energies 168
• D igitalization of grids 170
• Electrification of uses 172
4.3 Our commitment
to a just transition: leaving
no one behind 188
4.4 Empowering Enel people 208
4.5 Sustainable supply chain 236
4.6 Engaging communities 250
4. 7 Innovation 264
4.8 Digitalization 276
4.9 Circular economy 290
4.10 Conservation
of natural capital 304
• Preserving biodiversity 319
• Reducing pollution 332
• Using water responsibly 334
• Managing waste 339
4.11 Managing human rights 348
4.12 Occupational
health and safety 376
4.13 Sound governance 388
• Enel shareholders 390
• C orporate governance
People
model 392
N ature
• E nel Group risk governance
model 396
• V alues and pillars of corporate
ethics 411 e
m issions
o
• D ata protection 413 er
Z
4.14 Tax transparency 416
n
o
ambiti
s
Our strategy for G
r
o
tors
H
u man
right
w
Letter to
stakeholders
60 years of future
and energy
2-22
Dear stakeholders, from different countries, universities and
about 600 startups. We can therefore
This year, we’re celebrating 60 years of monitor technological discontinuities and
Enel: a company created to unite Italy and social inequalities and innovate to transform
its energy. It now leads the international them into a source of competitive advantage,
revolution in renewables and digital grids. We rather than merely undergo them.
are conducting that revolution sustainably A concrete example of this approach is the
and innovatively, to decarbonize energy expansion of 3SUN in Italy. By 2024, it is due
generation and to electrify consumption, to become the largest solar panel factory in
promoting a just transition. Europe, with a production capacity of 3 GW
The year 2022 was another of great per year, and will use a world-first innovative
turbulence, characterized by converging technology with a replicable business model,
crises: the continuation of the pandemic, which will be useful to strengthen our
the effects of climate change, economic independence in the value chain.
uncertainty, dramatic conflicts that caused Our ability to innovate has also enabled us to
tensions in the energy commodity market create Gridspertise, a company that assists
and contributed to the exacerbation of other global operators in the digitalization
inequalities and volatility in the supply chain. of distribution networks. Gridspertise was
The context has clarified the need to shift to established as a result of the innovations
an approach not limited to resistance during generated by collaborating with startups and
discontinuities, but able to innovate radically leaders from other sectors. Together with
and constantly, anticipating and guiding them, we have created QEd, a revolutionary
the now-constant changes, to progressively solution to digitalize various hardware
reduce the business-related risks over time components in the grid, thus saving costs
and to produce greater economic and social and raw materials.
value. Other examples are innovations in the
Enel has been adopting this approach for storage sector, such as the completion in
years: it has reduced dependence on fossil Tuscany in 2022 – with the collaboration
fuels and supplies from individual countries, of an Israeli startup – of the first thermal
decarbonized its energy generation, storage system in the world based on
digitalized infrastructure, electrified common stones, with no dependence on
consumption and created an innovation critical raw materials or use of chemical
ecosystem, involving over 500,000 people components.
Michele Crisostomo Francesco Starace
Chairman Chief Executive Officer
and General Manager
To increasingly free ourselves from fluctuations in the and solutions that respond to common priorities, promote
price of commodities, in 2022 we accelerated the local development and result in the creation of shared
decarbonization of power generation, continuing value in the long term. In 2022, there were already around
the development of new renewable capacity and the 5 million global beneficiaries of our projects to foster
decommissioning of fossil plants, such as the Bocamina sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth.
II coal-fired power plant in Chile. Its recent closure means In Italy, we’ve been focusing on students leaving school
we have become the first electricity company to no longer too soon, on access to the world of work for the new
use coal in the country. generations and on training in the new skills required
From photovoltaic panels to mini-wind farms, multiple by the energy transition, including via the circularity of
technologies can assist in improving the reliability of the professions linked to the previous energy model, through
energy system. Customers can also become producers reskilling and upskilling programs. The School4Life
or can reduce the cost of energy, accelerating the path project – intended to support students and teachers to
towards an electrified future. We remained the leader in prevent early school leaving – will involve about 15,000
demand response, with 8.5 GW of capacity managed for students in the two years from 2022 to 2023, whereas
energy consumption. Electrification also entails electric the Energie per Crescere (Energy for Growth) program,
mobility, which we are supporting by expanding the extended in early 2023 from the grids to the renewable
infrastructure, with 22,600 owned public charging points generation sector, will provide technical training to 5,500
installed globally in the last year, and with the development young people.
of new technologies and flexible services to improve the A key element in the strategy is our people: now as much
customer experience. as throughout the 60 years of our history, they design the
Another key element of our ecosystem is the more future of energy systems, with dedication and spirit of
than 172,000 suppliers, thanks to which we can service even at the most difficult times and in the most
innovate and make our value chain more and more extreme conditions.
decarbonized and sustainable. We are supporting them Our people have understood – and have helped others
towards a sustainable growth that can increase their to understand – the great value of the resource we
competitiveness and efficiency, by means of tangible work with, and the necessity to use it efficiently and
development initiatives and access to services at responsibly. By sharing our purpose of “Open power for a
advantageous conditions. brighter future” on a broader scale, we commit to making
Constant dialog with the communities in the countries the energy system more and more safe and sustainable
where we operate enables us to jointly construct projects for our stakeholders.
COMPANY VIEW
2 .
We empower
sustainable progress
We were founded 60 years ago
to bring energy to the territories and communities,
the same mission we have today but expanded by
innovation, sustainability, and a reliable business
model.
We aim to contribute to an affordable, secure and
sustainable energy system
by accelerating the decarbonization of our power
generation, strengthening the role of distribution
networks and creating products and services that
make energy transition more effective and simpler
in our customers' day-to-day.
We have outlined a sustainability strategy
supporting the United Nations' 17 Sustainable
Development Goals
with 4 out of the 17 goals guiding our value creation:
SDG 13 “Climate Action”; SDG 7 “Affordable and
Clean Energy”; SDG 9 “Industry, Innovation and
Infrastructure”; SDG 11 “Sustainable Cities and
Communities”.
We commit to a daily continuous improvement
individually and collectively: people and
communities, business, industries and institutions,
leveraging growth accelerators (innovation,
digitalization, circular economy and sustainability-
linked finance).
We empower
sustainable progress
2-1 2-6 303-3 303-5 305-4 401-1 404-1 405-1 EU1 EU2 EU3 EU4
In 2022 Enel celebrated its first 60 years: we were impacted by geopolitical conflicts, and will be sustainable,
created to bring energy to the territories and with no adverse effects on climate and ecosystems.
communities, the same mission we have today but These are key years to achieve the UN 2030 agenda, the
expanded by innovation, sustainability, and a reliable Paris Agreement climate objectives and the Kunming-
business model. As a result of the challenge of tackling Montreal agreement to stop and invert the trend of
climate change and the increasing digitalization of the biodiversity loss. These objectives can only be reached by
traditional business models of companies in the energy giving a push to decarbonization and clean electrification
sector, our mission has evolved in order to embrace new of end-uses, sustained by business models based on
ways for making energy accessible thus empowering circular economy and open to continuous innovation.
sustainable progress. Our contribution to an affordable, secure and
The current relevance of the climate change challenge, sustainable energy system leads us, therefore,
the repeated occurrence of extreme events, a high rate first of all to accelerate the decarbonization of
of loss of biodiversity and ecosystemic services need to our energy generation, as a result of renewables
be carefully addressed both in terms of preventing them development, utilization of storage and phase-out of
to happen and of adapting to a changing climate. thermal generation. In parallel, we will strengthen our
The pandemic and the geopolitical conflicts have distributions grids whose role is to enable the undergoing
worsened the situation and unveiled how much individual energy transition, also thanks to digital solutions that
countries and regions are intrinsically and structurally accomodate larger volumes of renewable energy, so as
weak while making clear that energy independence and to make them more resilient, sustainable and open to all
achievement of climate objectives require an acceleration stakeholders in electrification. Finally, we are developing
of energy policies and a new design of the electricity effective and easy-to-use products and services for our
market to promote the energy transition. By doing so, in customers since the change involves all of us, individually
the long-term, access to energy will happen at affordable and collectively: people and communities, companies,
and stable prices, will be secure since it will not be industries and institutions.
Our sustainable business model
and value creation
We have been confirmed as a leading group in the energy
sector, with a presence in 47 countries on five continents,
vertically integrated along the entire value chain.
Our purpose, mission, vision and values animate the en- capacity (Enel Green Power and Thermal Generation). We
tire organization and define the aim of the Company itself. are the largest private electricity distribution company in the
“Open Power for a brighter future: we empower sustain- world (Enel Grids), with approximately 72.7 million end users
able progress”, which expresses our daily commitment, the connected to our networks, including 45.8 million with active
very reason why our people are motivated. Being Open smart meters. We also manage the largest customer base of
Power means improving everyone’s future, pursuing a sus- any private company (Enel X Global Retail), with approximate-
tainable progress that leaves no one behind and leaving a ly 66.7 million customers. In order to increasingly promote
better planet to future generations. electrification of uses, we develop and sell new services and
Being Open Power means facing some of the biggest products (e-Mobility Enel X Way), like electric mobility pub-
world challenges by combining sustainability and innova- lic charging point that currently exceed 22.6 thousand. To
tion. Open Power means unleashing access to energy: our guarantee a stable energy supply, we operate in more than
mission is to connect an increasing number of people to 30 countries in wholesale energy markets, and this ensures
secure and sustainable energy, opening up to new tech- strategic and sustainable services to our customers (Global
nologies and partnerships, new uses and ways to manage Energy & Commodity Management).
energy itself, while respecting our fundamental values: Business is supported by the Global Service Functions
trust, responsibility, innovation and proactiveness. (Procurement, Digital Solutions and Global Customer Op-
Our business model is the growth engine. We are active along erations) and Staff Functions (Administration, Finance and
the full value chain through Business Lines having each a Control, Innovation and Sustainability, People and Orga-
specific focus. We are the world’s largest private operator in nization, Communications, Legal and Corporate Affairs,
the renewable energy sector with 53.6 GW(1) of net efficient Audit), with every Country combining the global business
renewable capacity, equal to 63.3% of the entire generation models with specific local requirements.
(1) If we include managed renewable capacity and BESS in 2022, 59 GW of installed capacity or 66% of total capacity was reached.
ECNESERP 47
countries
more than
1,000
Subsidiaries
65,124
Enel employees
Business Lines:
Integrated value chain
Global Power Generation
Raw materials
Enel Grids
Retail
Business part ners
Enel X
Enel X Way
Trading
Electricity generation
NET EFFICIENT
INSTALLED
TOTAL NET EFFICIENT RENEWABLE
INSTALLED CAPACITY CAPACITY
-2.9% +5.8%
84.6 63.3
GW % Networks
87.1 in 2021 57.5% in 2021
ELECTRICITY
DISTRIBUTION AND
TRANSMISSION
NETWORKS END USERS
-9.4% -3.4%
2,024,038 72.7
km mil
Products and 2,233,368 km in 2021 75.2 mil in 2021
services
RETAIL CUSTOMERS DEMAND RESPONSE
-3.7% +9.9%
66,784,895 8.5 Energy effi ciency
. GW
69,342,818 in 2021 7.7 GW in 2021
OWNED PUBLIC
CHARGING POINTS E-BUS
+24.9% +76.7% End-of-Life Management
22.6 5.3
thousand thousand
18.1 thousand in 2021 3.0 thousand in 2021
Every day our commitment is to develop a just and inclusive eas of operation, building solid and positive relationships to
transition that creates value wherever we operate. We work achieve sustainable and long-lasting outcome. We engage
jointly with our stakeholders (Enel people, suppliers and fi- our stakeholders by levering the Open Power approach as
nancial and commercial partners, communities in the areas defined both in our Code of Ethics and in our Human Rights
of influence of our operations, our customers, the financial Policy, and walking the talk through several solid initiatives. A
community, institutions, media, business and sector asso- continuous dialog with the individual stakeholders and with
ciations) since we are aware that we belong to the territory the organizations that represent them, which is summarized
and we are an essential element in the lives of people, busi- also in the results of the materiality analysis process that al-
ness and society at large. We strive to combine our industrial lows us to identify the priority actions and our contribution
objectives with the socio-economic development of our ar- to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Stakeholders 2022 INPUT 2022 OUTPUT
227.8 TWh Net electricity generation 229 gCO /kWh Intensity of GHG Scope 1
2eq
emissions relating to power
generation
0.23 (l/kWh ) Total specifi c freshwater 218 gCO /kWh Intensity of GHG Scope 1 and 3
eq 2eq
withdrawal emissions relating to Integrated
Power
19.3% Water withdrawal in water 22.9 MtCO Scope 3 emissions (gas retail)
2eq
stressed areas
Planet
200 No. Projects for the protection of 0.07 g/kWh Specifi c emissions of SO
2
species and natural habitats
26.5 Mtep Total direct fuel consumption 0.32 g/kWh Specifi c emissions of NO
x
45.2 Mm3 Total water consumption
20.6% Water consumption in water
stressed areas
9,452 ha Area covered by natural habitat
restoration projects
65,124 No. Enel people 6.8% Turnover
24.9% Proport ion of women managers to 0.56 i. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate
total managers
Enel people 32.6% Proport ion of women middle 47.4 average Training per employee
managers to total middle hours
managers
42% Training dedicated to reskilling
and upskilling
1,527 No. Applications of the shared value 15.6 mil Benefi ciaries - Access to clean
creation model (CSV)(1) and aff ordable energy(2)
Community 4.9 mil Benefi ciaries - Decent work and
economic growth(2)
3.7 mil Benefi ciaries - Quality education(2)
4,778 mil € Total Tax Borne
95.7% Cooperative Compliance Index
172,854 No. Suppliers (FTE) 99% Suppliers qualifi ed for ESG
aspects
20,435 No. Active suppliers 62% Supplies value covered by CFP
Suppliers
cert ifi cation
0.48 i. Lost Time Injury Frequency
Rate
45.8 mil End users with active smart 321 TWh Electricity sold
meters
37% Digital clients 212 No./10k Commercial claims
Customers customers
22.6 thousand No. Owned public charging points 231 min. SAIDI
0.7 mil Benefi ciaries of new connections
in rural and suburban areas
10 No. Innovation hubs 194 No. Proof of Concept
60 No. Solutions adopted in the business
Part ners
43 No. Part nership agreements for
innovation
60,068 mil € Net fi nancial debt 0.40 €/share Fixed dividend per share (DPS)
Financial
community 63% Sustainable sources of fi nancing 3.3% Cost of gross debt
on total
81.9% Investments in business activities 56.7% EBITDA related to business
aligned with the European activities aligned with the
Taxonomy Regulation European Taxonomy Regulation
(1) An application is interpreted as the use of at least one CSV instrument in relation to an asset, in any phase of the chain of value and in any Business Line. The CSV applications
in the BD phase include applications regarding BD opport unities (also at the beginning phases) and business projects output from the pipeline. They can also relate to assets in
O&M in the case of modernizing projects or decommissioning activities. The CSV applications in the E&C phase can refer to assets passed to the O&M phase at the end of the
year. The number of CSV applications in Infrastructure & Networks (I&N) may refer to the concession area, but also areas identifi ed by municipalities and substations. The value
includes companies consolidated using the equity method and companies for which the Build, Sell and Operate (BSO) mechanism has been applied.
(2) Cumulative fi gures since 2015.
Please refer to the related chapters in this document and to the
Sustainability Statement to see the progress of these data.
With the planet: we are committed to defining measures With suppliers: we face the challenges of transition
and actions for mitigating the impacts generated by and support their path of change and growth,
climate change, including the loss of biodiversity and sharing ideas and innovations (please refer to chapter
the disappearance of ecosystems, to guarantee a “Sustainable supply chain”).
safe, healthy, clean and sustainable environment for
the protection of rights of human beings and future
generations (please refer to the chapters “Zero emissions
ambition” and “Conservation of natural capital”).
With customers: we analyze their needs to ensure reliable With the financial community: we maintain a constant
responses and establish lasting relationships, committing and open relationship, based on principles of integrity
ourselves to offering sustainable solutions and services and transparency, in compliance with the rules and best
that are affordable, innovative, flexible and attentive to the practices, in order to increase the level of understanding
most vulnerable to ensure equal access to energy (please of the activities carried out by the Group (please refer to
refer to chapter “Clean electrification”). the “Sound governance” chapter).
With people in the Company: we are committed to With our partners: through openinnovability.com, a
having a close relationship with them, particularly by crowdsourcing platform, the different areas of the Group
paying greater attention to caring activities and active can interact with startups, industrial partners, small and
listening, while promoting internally a culture of inclusion, medium-sized enterprises (“SMEs”), research centers,
enhancement of diversity, innovation and business universities and entrepreneurs, to deal jointly with the
entrepreneurship to face the challenges posed by a challenges of the future and guarantee sustainable
constantly changing context (please refer to chapter progress for all (please refer to chapter “Innovation”).
“Empowering Enel people”).
With communities: we work together to draw up specific
action plans and projects intended to promote access
to energy, fighting energy poverty, supporting quality
education and socio-economic development, starting
from a proactive analysis of their needs through a shared
value creation model (please refer to chapter “Engaging
communities”).
Economic value generated and distributed
for stakeholders
3-3 201-1
Millions of euro
2022 2021(1)
Economic value generated directly 140,821 85,865
Economic value distributed directly
Operating expenses 114,384 62,063
Personnel expenses and benefits 3,646 4,296
Payments to providers of capital (shareholders and lenders) 7,691 7,409
Payments to government(2) 6,027 4,916
131,748 78,684
Economic value retained 9,073 7,181
(1) The figure for 2021 has been adjusted, for comparative purposes only, to take account of the classification under the item “Profit/(Loss) from discontinued
operations” of profit/(loss) connected with the assets held in Russia (which were sold in the 4th Quarter of 2022), Romania and Greece as the requirements
of IFRS 5 for their classification as discontinued operations have been met.
(2) The amount includes “total tax borne”, which is costs for taxes borne by the Group. For more information, see the 2022 Sustainability Report and the Con-
solidated Non-Financial Statement. The figure for 2021 has been adjusted on the basis of more accurate information.
The economic value generated and distributed directly by ticular gas and electricity. The payments to capital lenders
Enel provides a useful indication of how the Group has cre- are increasing essentially due to the increase in interest
ated wealth for all stakeholders. The increase in the eco- expense, mainly related to the increase in the interest rates
nomic value generated directly and the operating costs following the restrictive monetary policies that were imple-
was caused mainly by the increase in the average prices mented to face the growing inflationary pressure.
and intermediate volumes of energy commodities, in par-
.
Our strategy for
sustainable progress
The strategy developed in recent years has enabled the In particular, 4 of the 17 goals guide our creation of value:
•
Group to set out a vision of the future and progress cen- SDG 13 “Climate Action”;
•
tered on sustainability as a key factor in addressing the SDG 7 “Affordable and Clean Energy”;
•
global challenges of the transition to a decarbonized SDG 9 “Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure”;
•
economy. SDG 11 “Sustainable Cities and Communities”.
A sustainable strategy and an integrated business model
that enable us to contribute to achieving all 17 United Na-
tions Sustainable Development Goals.
SDG 13.2 SDG 7.2 SDG 9.1 SDG 11.2
Integrate climate change Increase substantially the share Develop quality, reliable, Provide access to safe,
measures into national policies, of renewable energy in the global sustainable and resilient aff ordable, accessible and
strategies and planning energy mix. infrastructure, including regional sustainable transport systems for
and trans-border infrastructure, all, improving road safety, notably
to support economic by expanding public transport ,
development and human well- with special att ention to the
being, with a focus on aff ordable needs of those in vulnerable
and equitable access for all. situations, women, children,
The focus
persons with disabilities and
of our SDG 9.4 older persons.
contribution Upgrade infrastructure and
SDG 11.3
retrofi t industries to make them
sustainable, with increased Enhance inclusive and
resource-use effi ciency and sustainable urbanization and
greater adoption of clean capacity for part icipatory,
and environmentally sound integrated and sustainable
technologies and industrial human sett lement planning and
processes, with all countries management in all countries.
taking action in accordance with
their respective capabilities
Enel’s decarbonization roadmap Enel’s main contribution to SDG 7 The digitalization and upgrading We develop innovative
covers both direct and indirect focuses on the decarbonization of grids are key objectives to technologies to make the use
emissions along the Group's of the generation mix, with ensure the reliability and security of clean electricity increasingly
entire value chain, and consists the progressive development of the energy system. Grids accessible and widespread,
of four targets cert ifi ed by the of renewable energy, taking fl exibility and capacity allow accelerating the digitalization of
Science Based Targets initiative advantage of the hybridization to handle an increasing share services for greater effi ciency in
(SBTi), in line with limiting global of renewables with storage of distributed generation and the use of energy itself.
warming to 1.5°C. solutions, and the concomitant the increase in the number of In homes (B2C) through a focus
• Development of new RES exit from electricity generation connections with new users on residential consumption (e.g.
capacity to have 100% from thermal capacity heat pumps for home heating and
renewable generation facilities induction plates), with businesses
by 2040 (B2B) by guiding them towards
the use of customized integrated
• Exit from coal-fi red generation solutions, start ing with consultancy
by 2027 and gas-fi red up to the implementation of
generation by 2040 solutions such as self-production
Our actions
• Exit from gas retail by 2040, of electricity, installation of
100% sales from RES by 2040 trigeneration plants, and in the
• Enel Capex Plan fully aligned public sector (B2G)we promote the
with the target use of a circular model for cities,
accompanying them on a path of
electrifi cation and digitalization,
through the integration of
solutions aimed at effi ciency and
the improvement of services for
the benefi t of households and the
reduction of polluting emissions.
Furt hermore, the expansion
of electric vehicle charging
infrastructure for Enel is one of the
main drivers for the electrifi cation
of end-use consumption.
• Reduction in GHG Scope 1 • 21 GW additional renewable • Improve service quality by • Instal 31.4 thousand owned
emissions intensity relating to capacity in the period 2023- reducing the average duration public charging points in 2025
power generation(1): -80% in 2025, of which ~ 4 GW Batt ery of system interruptions: SAIDI • Serve approximately 13
2030 vs 2017 Energy Storage System (BESS) ~150 min. in 2025 thousand electric buses in
• Reduction of GHG emissions • 70% energy production from • Improve demand response 2025
intensity Scopes 1 and 3 relating renewable sources in 2025 solutions: 12.4 GW in 2025 • Manage 3.3 mil lighting points
to Integrated Power(1): -78% in • Achieve 48.3 mil users with (street lighting) in 2025
Our goals 2030 vs 2017 active smart meters in 2025 • 4,000 municipalities
• Reduction in absolute GHG connected on the YoUrban
Scope 3 emissions relating to platform in 2025
Gas Retail: -55% in 2030 vs 2017
• 352 MW storage behind the
• >80% of investments (Capex) meter in 2025
planned for 2023-2025 aligned
with the European Taxonomy
Regulation
~94
%
13 7 9 11
Capex aligned with SDGs in the period
2023-2025
(1) Values of reduction percentages were calculated on an equal perimeter basis, and take into account the 2017 baseline from which GHG emissions from
disposed assets from 2017-2022 are excluded, in accordance with SBTi.
The Sustainability Plan: our commitment
Our sustainability strategy is embodied in our Sustain- digitalization, circular economy and sustainable finance
ability Plan, defined taking into account the results of the act across all sectors and accelerate growth. A pathway of
materiality analysis, in synergy with the Strategic Plan, and sustainable growth that is taken in respect of nature and
translated into specific short-, medium- and long-term of human rights, with the support of a sound governance
goals in order to ensure the transparency and verifiabili- structure.
ty of our journey towards sustainable progress. Every year,
these objectives are updated in accordance with a process The Sustainability Plan 2023-2025 reinforces our decar-
of continuous alignment with the business strategies, with bonization commitment, considering all Group emissions
the results achieved and best practices in order to increas- and confirming our commitment to achieving “No Net
Sustainability Plan 2023-2025
ingly integrate sustainability along the entire value chain. Loss” in terms of biodiversity in the development of new
At the heart of our sustainability strategy is our ambition infrastructure from 2030, focusing in particular on areas of
to achieve zero emissions by 2040, thanks to a sustainable high biodiversity importance, with respect to forest con-
buTshirnoeusgsh m ao sdueslt abiansaebdle o bnu tshinee dsse vmeolodpeml, ewnet aoifm g teon reerdauticoen our emsisesrivoantsio tno aznerdo tbhye lepvreersaegrvinagti on of protected areas. A new
an innovative ecosystem that takes into account the needs of our stakeholders,
from renewable sources and facilitated by the security and objective was defined related to the overall well-being of
with attention to nature and with respect for human rights.
reliability of the grid and the clean electrification of con- Enel people, as a factor enabling the development of inno-
sumption. In all our activities, we always take into account vation potential.
the needs of our stakeholders. In this context, innovation,
Enel People
Customers
Sustainability Plan Communities
2023-2025 Suppliers
People
Financial community
Institutions
Media
Business and trade associations
Nature
Zero emissions
ambition
Human Rights
Innovation Growth
Circular economy Accelerators
Digitalization
Sustainable finance
Our commitment to sustainability
Elisabett a Ripa Antonio Cammisecra Salvatore Bernabei
Global E-Mobility Global Infrastructure & Networks Global Power Generation
“Enel X Way has adopted an integrated “We invest in research, development “We work passionately every day
sustainable business approach: We and the use of low-impact to realize our mission ‘To promote
implement inclusive solutions for every components and innovative solutions progress with sustainable energy’
mobility need, accessible to all, and we that reuse materials from end-of-life by investing in renewable energy
do this by following Circular by Design grid components, involving the entire development and innovation
logic, which aims to reduce to zero not supply chain in order to reduce its together with our colleagues and
only our carbon footprint but also that emissions to zero”. part ners and with the communities
of our customers”. that host our plants”.
Francesco Venturini Claudio Machett i Nicola Melchiott i
Enel X Global Retail Global Energy and Commodity Global Customer Operations
Management
“We accompany our customers on a “Turning every interaction into an
sustainable growth path: from simple “We improve and integrate opport unity to bring satisfaction
consumers to active decision-makers sustainability into our and happiness to our customers.
in energy consumption and generation margin optimization and risk This is our goal, for which we are
choices, capable of seizing economic, management processes for the focusing on listening, simplifi cation
environmental and social opport unities Group. Anti-fragility research and the design of a more
with commodity-integrated and collaboration with our sustainable future for each of our
electrifi cation solutions”. stakeholders is our vision to customers”.
sustainable progress”.
Guido Stratt a
People and Organization
“People are the key to enabling the
energy transition. Through continuous
learning, work-life balance, inclusion
and a culture of safety we take care
of their well-being and motivation, a
requirement for achieving our goals”.
Ernesto Ciorra
Innovation
and Sustainability
“Let us work for a fairer and more
inclusive society, creating economic
and social value that fuels progress
that is truly sustainable and open to
everyone!”.
Albert o De Paoli Francesca Di Carlo Robert o Deambrogio
Administration, Global Procurement Communications
Finance and Control
“It is critical for us to include the supply “For Enel, being sustainable is the
“Sustainability is our start ing point and chain in our sustainability strategy, only way to create long-term value.
main purpose. It is the engine of our sharing measurable goals consistent Sustainability is integrated into
business proposition and growth with our SBTi-cert ifi ed decarbonization our investments and the Group’s
perspectives. It is a place where road map and stimulating innovation as industrial strategy from the very
technological evolution, profi t and the a lever for acceleration”. beginning, taking into account the
wealth of people can fi nd a perf ect needs of each stakeholder and thus
synthesis without frictions and the path creating shared value”.
where the old concept of capitalism
is evolving into the new Stakeholder
Capitalism proposition. Our Zero Emission
Ambition plan makes it clear that we know
where we want to arrive and the leadership
role we want to continue to play”.
Giulio Fazio Silvia Fiori Carlo Bozzoli
Legal and Corporate Aff airs Audit Global Digital Solutions
“Reinterpreting the role of the “We have integrated SDGs and “The great opport unity off ered
corporate lawyer from a sustainable sustainability KPIs into our risk by digitalization is the essential
perspective means creating value for assessment to enable us to assess factor in implementing the energy
society, investors and stakeholders. the adequacy and eff ectiveness of the transition and achieving zero
And to this end it is crucial not to risk control measures in the processes emissions. In the coming years, the
limit ourselves to the lett er of the law that also take into account their focus will be on sustainable coding
but to use the regulations to provide contribution to achieving the Group’s to ensure greater quality, safety and
solutions and create opport unities”. sustainability goals”. inclusiveness”.
Zero emissions ambition
Read more...
At the center of Enel’s sustainability strategy lies the Targets initiative), have been defined, covering both direct
ambition to achieve zero emissions in 2040, in line emissions generated by our plants and indirect upstream
with the goal of limiting global warming to below 1.5 and downstream emissions produced by our suppliers
ºC. Specific targets, validated by SBTi (Science Based and customers.
2030 2023-2025
-80
%
>80
%
reduction of GHG Scope 1 emissions of investments (Capex) planned
intensity relating to power generation for 2023-2025 aligned with the
(compared to 2017)(2) European Taxonomy
-78
%
reduction of GHG Scope 1 and 3 emissions
intensity relating to Integrated Power
(compared to 2017)(2)
-55
%
reduction of absolute GHG Scope 3
emissions relating to Gas Retail PROJECT: ADAPTATION: A CLIMATE-PROOF
(compared to 2017) FUTURE
Legend
Target included in the short- and
long-term remuneration plan for Top Management
Target included in sustainability-linked
financial instruments
(2) The values of the reduction percentages have been calculated on an equal perimeter basis, and take into account the 2017 baseline, which excludes GHG
emissions from assets disposed in the 2017-2022 period, in accordance with SBTi.
Clean electrification
Read more...
The transition to decarbonization is supported by the 2025
growing development of renewable energies, reaching
53.6 GW(3) of installed capacity in 2022, and by the phase- 70
%
out of coal-fired generation by 2027 and gas-fired by
energy production from renewable sources
2040. It is also supported by an approach to innovation
as an accelerator in the creation of sustainable value,
~150
min SAIDI
an example of which is the construction of the 3SUN
Gigafactory photovoltaic panel plant in Catania. System Average Interruption
Duration Index (min)
31.4
thousands
The extension and digitalization of the grids, which have
72.7 million end users, make it possible to accommodate owned public charging points
greater volumes of energy produced from renewable
sources and to offer an increasingly high-quality, secure
PROJECT: SARDINIA: THE PERFECT ISLAND
and reliable service. One of the main objectives in this
FOR A SUSTAINABLE MODEL
regard is strengthening our commitment to reducing
the average frequency (SAIFI) and duration (SAIDI) of
interruptions of electricity supply. Furthermore, we are
committed to further extending access to electricity in rural
and suburban areas in the countries in which we operate,
to communities with no electricity supply, aiming to reach
7.1 million beneficiaries by 2030.
By offering new, innovative and inclusive products and energy ever closer to our customers, for example
services, we can accompany our customers on their through the development of energy communities.(5) We
journey to clean electrification and the transformation of also continue supporting the spread of electric mobility,
their energy habits in everyday life. We are able to do this expecting to reach 31,400 owned public charging points
through network flexibility and consumption optimization in 2025 (22,600 in 2022), as well as serving around 13,000
services such as demand response,(4) but also by bringing electric buses (over 5,000 in 2022).
(3) Including managed renewable capacity and BESS in 2022, 59 GW of installed capacity or 66% of total capacity was reached.
(4) A digital platform service open to commercial and industrial customers that enables greater network flexibility and stability and more efficient use of infra-
structure and energy resources by optimizing consumption.
(5) An energy community consists of an association of citizens, businesses, local governments and small/medium-sized enterprises that decide to join forces
with the aim of producing, trading and consuming energy from renewable sources on a local scale.
People
Read more...
The value of the relationships we establish with our we are committed to dedicating 40% of the total
stakeholders is a core focus of our commitment to training fund to these programs in 2025. We support
achieve a just transition, focusing on those most our suppliers on this new journey to repurpose
exposed in the transition to a decarbonized economy. their resources and skills and we develop projects
We promote specific resettlement programs and activities at a local level with the communities
supported by upskilling and reskilling activities and involved in the transition process.
For the people who work at the Company, we and throughout all people management processes.
are also committed on a daily basis to building an Read more...
inclusive working environment in which diversity and
uniqueness are valued and individual development is 2025
encouraged, including through the further extension
and diversification of the training offer. Our attention is 45
%
increasingly focused on the well-being of our people
women in Top Manager succession
and on enabling their engagement and innovative
plans
potential: in pursuing this direction, a new goal related to
the overall well-being of Enel people has been defined. 61
%
Women in the company account for 23.4% of the total,
Overall Global Wellbeing Index
thanks to a special focus on gender diversity, which also
in a broader, cultural and generational sense, aims to
enhance resources even before they join the company PROJECT: BACK TO SCHOOL
Our suppliers are indispensable for us to enhance the application of rankings and/or targets concerning the
sustainable progress and realize the process of carbon footprint of suppliers.
transformation of the energy and digital system, Read more...
encouraging them to commit to a sustainable path. The
basis of our purchasing processes is loyalty, transparency 2025
and collaboration, and we ask our suppliers not only
to guarantee the quality standards required, but also 75
%
to commit to adopting best practices in terms of
supplies’ value covered by Carbon
human rights and of the impact of their activity on the
Footprint certification
environment. This commitment is translated into concrete
actions: at the qualification stage, when assessing
suppliers based on social and environmental factors, PROJECT: ENERGY FOR SCHOOLS
when requesting certifications at the tender stage, or in
Responsible relations with the communities where 2015-2030
we operate aim to promote economic and social 5
million
development through sustainability projects. From the
beneficiaries of the projects to ensure inclusive and
expansion of infrastructure to professional education and
equitable quality education (SDG 4)
training programs, as well as projects that support cultural
20
and economic activities and promote access to energy, million
rural and suburban electrification, tackling energy poverty beneficiaries of projects to provide access to
and promoting social inclusion for the more vulnerable affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy
(SDG 7)
categories.
Read more... 8
million
beneficiaries of projects to promote sustained,
lasting, inclusive and sustainable economic growth
(SDG 8)
PROJECT: RUTA PEHUENCHE
Growth accelerators
Read more...
Innovation, circular economy, digitalization and sustainability strategy that embrace and enhance all
sustainable finance are the growth accelerators of Enel’s strategic themes crosswise.
We constantly work on innovation and foster open 2023-2025
collaboration with our partners, including start-ups, SMEs,
large companies, academia, internal and external experts, 126
and investors. A widespread culture of Innovability® Scale-up of solutions in the business
(innovation and sustainability) means that the whole
445
Company aims to renew itself continually, thereby Launch of Proof of Concept
ensuring its survival in the long term. We constantly strive to test innovative solutions
to find innovative solutions to support environmental
protection but also to create more socially inclusive
PROJECT: NET ZERO GRID
conditions.
Read more...
For years, we have been constantly rethinking how we do 2030
things with a circular economy approach, focusing on
innovation not only in technology, but also in business 92
%
models, involving the entire value chain. Adopting a
Circularity improvement(6)
circular and sustainable model as an integral part of the
energy transition process also allows us to lower our
Double Economic CirculAbility©
dependence on raw materials, particularly on “critical”
compared to the baseline year 2020(7)
raw materials, ensuring not only the competitiveness
of the business model, but also full social and
environmental sustainability across the chain. Suffice PROJECT: WIND NEW LIFE
to look at the increasing attention to raw materials, the
basis for the production of solar panels and batteries,
a major focus considering the topic of their scarcity
compared to demand.
Read more...
Finally, the energy transition process cannot disregard 2025
aspects such as digitalization and cyber security,
through which the Group is committed to disseminating 1,400
the most advanced solutions and to strengthening
cyber security verification activities per year
verification activities in order to prevent possible cyber
(Ethical Hacking, Vulnerability Assessment, etc.)
attacks (Ethical Hacking, Vulnerability Assessment).
Read more...
PROJECT: PLATFORMS
The importance of sustainable finance is growing to (Capex) in 2022 were aligned with the UN Sustainable
accelerate the achievement of the 2030 Agenda goals, Development Goals (SDGs).
through investments that link financial strategy to the Read more...
Company’s sustainability goals. At Enel, sustainable
finance plays a crucial role in supporting the growth of
2025
the Group, accounting for 63% of the gross debt at the
end of 2022 and contributing to a gradual reduction ~70
%
in the cost of debt, through the recognition of the
sustainable financing sources (sustainable finance
value of sustainability. Furthermore, 92% of investments
instruments/total financial instruments)
(6) The circularity improvement index measures lower material and fuel consumption of the Group’s plants throughout their life cycle compared to 2015.
(7) The “Economic CirculAbility©” KPI considers the Group’s overall EBITDA (euros) and compares it with the amount of resources consumed, both fuel and raw
materials, by the different business activities (tons).
Nature
Read more...
Protecting natural capital and biodiversity, tackling 2030
climate change, and contributing to sustainable
Preservation of biodiversity:
economic development are strategic factors in
No Net Loss
the planning, operation and development of our
activities. From the perspective of the energy and -85
%
digital transformation process, mitigating the effects
reduction of specific SO emissions
of increasing environmental degradation and climate 2
change cannot be achieved without taking into account -70 %
their social impact and the principles of inclusion and
reduction of specific NO emissions
equity. In particular, this translates into an everyday x
commitment to the conservation and preservation of -65 %
nature and biodiversity, by reducing and mitigating the
reduction of specific freshwater withdrawal
potential negative effects on the planet that may result
from various Group activities, to protect current and
PROJECT: BIODIVERSITY TO PROTECT HUEMUL
future generations.
The environmental strategy is also strengthened by
a circularity approach, which focuses on reducing In this context, we have defined specific targets related
the consumption of non-renewable resources and to the reduction of emissions (including SO , NO),
2 x
maximizing the value of those already used and of the freshwater withdrawal through responsible use of water
goods produced, by integrating sustainability from the resources and waste generated through a structured
design phase to the decommissioning of plants, also management system. We have also committed to
through innovative solutions. achieving No Net Loss in terms of biodiversity for new
infrastructures from 2030, commencing its adoption on
selected projects in areas of high biodiversity importance
starting from 2025.
Human rights
Read more...
Our commitment to human rights is reflected in an growth of a constructive dialogue that can
integrated, cross-cutting approach that takes into really help to effectively address the challenges in terms
account the needs of our stakeholders along the entire of the social impact of a decarbonized economy.
value chain. In this way, we promote knowledge and the Read more...
The protection of health and safety for all those who
-1
work with and for us is a shared responsibility at every %
level, through the integration of safety in processes Injuries with absence from work frequency
and training, in the relationship with contractors, in rate compared to the previous year(8)
the management and analysis of accidents and in the
continuous quality controls. PROJECT: ROBOTS AND SAFETY
Read more...
Underpinning the business processes and activities principles in support of our business model and its
in which we are engaged is a sound governance implementation on a daily basis, as well as of our entire
framework, which enables to guarantee our stakeholders sustainability strategy.
the application of transparency, fairness and integrity Read more...
In the 2022 Sustainability Report, an overview of all the contribute directly. Each dashboard then presents in de-
objectives in the 2023-2025 Sustainability Plan is pro- tail the 2022 results related to the targets of the previous
vided at the beginning of each chapter, in the dashboards. 2022-2024 Sustainability Plan, the resulting progress and
For example, the dashboard header represents the link the targets of the 2023-2025 Sustainability Plan, which
between the material topics, the issues in the Sustainabil- may be redefined, added to, or surpassed with respect to
ity Plan and the United Nations Sustainable Development the previous Plan.
Goals, to which the objectives related to the specific issue
Material topics (I level) Plan SDG
• Decarbonization of the
Double energy mix
materiality
Zero emissions
ambition
(8) This index is calculated by establishing the ratio between the number of injuries (all injuries, also those with 3 days of absence or less) and hours
worked/1,000,000. In line with GRI, the target reported here takes into account calculation methods that are slightly different from what has been included
in Chief Executive Officer's short-term variable compensation, reported in the Report on Remuneration Policy.
Our governance
of sustainability
2-9 2-12 2-13 2-14 2-24
Our governance structure is inspired by international best strategic and operational processes at all levels of the
practices in terms of independence, transparency, inclu- Company, ensuring effective and efficient management of
siveness and accountability, and permeates the various activities in line with the Company’s purpose and values.
Integrating sustainability into company
strategy and processes
For us, sustainability is an essential part of our company sustainable progress. Context analysis is therefore cru-
processes and lies at the heart of our strategy to meet cial in order to identify the actual and potential impact of
the global challenges of the transition to a decarbonized our activities, as well as serving as a guide in the defini-
economy. This integration is possible thanks to structured tion and planning of our short-, medium- and long-term
processes throughout the Group, starting with an analysis targets, which are realized through the implementation
of the context and macro-trends that allows us to assess of specific actions and the development of projects and
economic, social and environmental challenges, analyze initiatives in support of our sustainability strategy. Every
the associated risks and seize the relative opportunities. stage of this process relies on respect for human rights
1 Lett er to Stakeholders 2 Our sustainable progress 3 Materiality analysis 4 Our perf ormance 5 Appendix
This in turn allows us to understand the context in which as a fundamental element in the pursuit of sustainable
we operate, supporting our growth and our path towards success.
ESG context analysis
Sustainable
success
ESG benchmarks
and ratings Materiality
analysis
Perf ormance
management and
report ing
Sustainability
Strategy and Plan
Action and projects
A key element of the approach described is the adoption we establish a quality relationship, measured using ESG
of the ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) indi- metrics.
cators throughout the entire value chain, not only to report Our commitment to transparent and robust reporting of
the results achieved, but above all to anticipate decisions our performance on all ESG aspects is essential in order for
and guide our actions. We are constantly committed to us to ensure access to information for all our stakeholders,
managing and measuring our performance on all relevant as well as for ESG rating agency assessments to support
aspects, considering economic, business and ESG issues investors in assessing the sustainability of our business
in reporting on activities and defining the objectives un- model.
derlying the strategy. This model is fully in line with the A commitment evidenced by our active participation in
requirements of the United Nations’ Global Compact, of various international and European contexts in initiatives
which Enel has been an active member since 2004, which and actions to develop and revise frameworks and stan-
stress the importance of ever-increasing integration of dards for measuring corporate sustainability, including the
sustainability throughout all corporate strategies. European Financial Reporting Advisory Group (EFRAG)’s
In 2022, we also officially launched our ENEL STAKECAP©™ drafting of the European sustainability reporting stan-
model, proposing the adoption of new financial metrics to dards. Please refer to the “Our participation in ESG stan-
represent the creation and distribution of sustainable val- dards/frameworks and sustainability networks” paragraph
ue to the different categories of stakeholders with whom for further details in this chapter.
The Enel governance model
for sustainability
2-9 2-10 2-17 2-18
Enel’s organizational and corporate governance model en- sition of the Board of Directors, with a view to its renewal
sures that sustainability issues are appropriately taken into by the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting scheduled for May
consideration in all relevant company decision-making 2023, expressly took into account the criteria set out in
processes, by defining specific tasks and responsibilities the Diversity Policy. These guidelines, which include sus-
for the main corporate governance bodies. tainability among the competencies deemed relevant, are
The Board of Directors plays a central role in corporate summarized in a special document that was published in
governance as the body vested with powers related to the good time on the Company’s website in anticipation of the
strategic, organizational and control policies of the Com- Shareholders’ Meeting called to renew the Board.
pany and Group, and pursues the sustainable success of In order to provide Directors with an adequate overview of
the same. In this context, the Board of Directors takes into the Group’s business sectors, including sustainability is-
account the need to pursue sustainable success particu- sues, a comprehensive induction program was organized
larly: (i) when defining Company and Group strategies; (ii) commencing in the second half of 2020, followed by spe-
when drawing up the remuneration policy for the Chief cific examination of the topics of corporate governance
Executive Officer/General Manager and Key Management and climate change during 2021. During 2022, the induc-
Personnel, defining specific sustainability objectives the tion program continued with further examination of the
achievement of which is linked to a significant component topics of cyber security and risk governance.
of the variable pay; and (iii) with regard to the Company’s Furthermore, in order to regulate the way in which the
Internal Control and Risk Management System (“SCIGR”), Company engages with institutional investors and with all
aimed at the effective and efficient identification, mea- shareholders and bond holders, in March 2021 the Board
surement, management and monitoring of the main cor- of Directors adopted a specific Policy (called “Engagement
porate risks, including those of an ESG nature. Policy”). In this regard, during 2022, the Company main-
Enel applies diversity criteria, also in relation to gender, tained an ongoing dialogue with institutional investors,
in the composition of the Board of Directors, in line with also with reference to certain profiles concerning sustain-
the priority goal of ensuring adequate competence and ability, with a particular focus on climate change.
professionalism of its members and in compliance with The Board of Directors has also established internal board
its Diversity Policy, approved in 2018. The Board of Direc- committees with the power to investigate, propose and
tors, whose term expires with the approval of the financial advise, in order to ensure an adequate internal division of
statements for the 2022 financial year, in providing share- its functions, as well as a related parties committee. In par-
holders with its guidance on the optimal size and compo- ticular, the following committees have been established:
•
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee, the management of the Company and acts as the di-
which among other things assists the Board of Direc- rector in charge of the establishment and maintenance
tors on sustainability issues, including issues relating of the SCIGR. Also, in exercising the powers granted, he
to climate change and the dynamics of the Company’s has defined a sustainable business model by identifying
interaction with all stakeholders. More specifically, with a strategy aimed at guiding the energy transition to a
regard to sustainability issues, the Committee exam- low carbon model;
•
ines: (i) the guidelines of the Sustainability Plan and the the Innovability® Function (Innovation and Sustainabil-
materiality matrix – which identifies the material topics ity), which reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer,
for stakeholders in light of the Enel Group’s industrial manages all activities relating to sustainability and inno-
strategies – periodically assessing achievement of the vation. The Holding units responsible for Enel S.p.A.’s op-
objectives defined in the Plan itself; (ii) the way in which erations, particularly the sustainability, circular economy,
the sustainability policy is implemented; (iii) the general and community relations processes, play a guidance and
outline and structure of the content in the Non-Financial coordination role for the Sustainability and Innovation
Statement and the Sustainability Report, which may be units located in the various countries and Business Lines.
summarized in a single document. In 2022, it addressed In particular, the Holding’s Sustainability Planning and
sustainability issues in 4 of the 6 meetings held. Performance Management and Human Rights unit, re-
•
Control and Risks Committee, which is tasked, among sponsible for the management of sustainability planning,
other things, with supporting the assessments and de- monitoring and reporting processes, including compli-
cisions of the Board of Directors relating to the SCIGR, ance with the European taxonomy, as well as the man-
also with regard to risks that may be relevant from a sus- agement of ESG ratings, sustainability indices and the
tainability perspective, and to the approval of periodic Human Rights Policy, also reports to the Group’s Chief Fi-
financial and non-financial reports. During 2022 it dealt nancial Officer (CFO), in order to ensure the ever-greater
with sustainability issues in 8 of the 14 meetings held; integration of these issues into corporate strategies and
•
Nomination and Compensation Committee, which is corporate reporting;
•
tasked, among other things, with supporting the Board the Global Business Lines, Countries, Global Service
of Directors in its assessments and decisions relating to Functions and Holding Functions integrate ESG factors
the size and optimal composition of the Board itself and into their decision-making and operating processes, to
its Committees, as well as the remuneration of Direc- create long-term sustainable value, thanks to the pres-
tors and Key Management Personnel. In this regard, the ence of dedicated Sustainability structures in all Coun-
remuneration policy for 2022 provides for specific sus- tries, Business Lines and Global Service Functions. At the
tainability targets the achievement of which is linked to local level, the expectations of the various stakeholders
a significant component of the variable pay of the Chief are identified, and specific sustainability plans defined, in
Executive Officer/General Manager; line with the Group strategy.
•
Related Parties Committee, which performs the tasks With specific reference to governance for the manage-
required by the CONSOB regulations and by the specific ment of climate change, please refer to the “Zero emis-
Enel procedure governing transactions with related par- sions target” chapter of this document.
ties. Furthermore, the Group CEO chairs the Cyber Security
Furthermore, in line with the power structure currently in Committee, which consists of the Group’s front line and
force within the Company: the purpose of which is to approve the IT security strategy
•
the Chairman of the Board of Directors acts as a link be- and periodically check the progress of its implementation.
tween the executive and non-executive directors and is For more information on the activities carried out by the
responsible for ensuring the effective operation of the corporate bodies, please refer to the Enel Report on Cor-
board; he also plays a proactive role in the process of porate Governance and Ownership Structure, available at
approving and monitoring corporate and sustainability www.enel.com, governance section, as well as the chapter
strategies; on “Sound Governance” in this document.
•
the Chief Executive Officer is primarily responsible for
Our part icipation in ESG standards/frameworks
and in sustainable development organizations
Network/organizations
2-28
Standard/framework
1. Global Report ing Initiative 2. IFRS Sustainability Alliance
The Enel Group has been a member of the Global Report ing Initiative Even following the initial merger of IIRC and SASB into the Value Re-
(GRI) since 2006, and part of the GRI Community since 2016. In 2022 port ing Foundation, and then into the current IFRS Sustainability Alli-
Enel continued to engage with the other members of the Global Sus- ance, in 2022 Enel continued to engage with the new organization to
tainability Standards Board and played an active role in completing the promote transparent, reliable and comparable report ing on environ-
work of the “Business Leadership Forum on the SDGs”, once again con- mental, social and governance issues.
fi rming its eff ort s to achieve the SDGs, while demonstrating commit-
ment, accountability and transparency through corporate report ing.
Since 2020, Enel has been part of the Global Sustainability Standards
Board, the independent body that has the exclusive responsibility for
developing and issuing the Global Report ing Initiative (GRI) Standards.
3. Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial 5. Taskforce on Nature-related
Disclosures (TCFD) Financial Disclosures (TNFD) Forum
Enel has support ed the Taskforce since the publication of the fi rst rec- In 2022, Enel continued to collaborate as a member of the TNFD Fo-
ommendations in June 2017, promoting transparent and reliable infor- rum, a multi-stakeholder advisory group that support s the new Task-
mation on the climate. In 2020, Enel was also a member of the TCFD force on Nature-related Financial Disclosure (TNFD) to provide a
Advisory Group which puts together recommendations on scenario global framework by 2023 for companies and fi nancial institutions to
analyses. assess and report risks and opport unities linked to their operation’s
impact on nature and biodiversity. In October 2022, Enel was also se-
lected as one of the companies that are part of TNFD Pilot Program,
which will test the new TNFD framework under the WBCSD's guidance
as part of three groups (energy, land use and built environment).
6. Science Based Target
4. Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) Network (SBTN) for Nature
Enel has cert ifi ed through SBTi four targets, referring to both direct After joining the Science Based Target Network’s Corporate Engage-
and indirect emissions along the entire value chain, with respect to ment Program in 2021, Enel again committ ed to SBTN’s goals and vi-
the 2030 and 2040 horizons, in line with 1.5 °C and the criteria and sion, and helped develop methods and tools in line with its targets.
recommendations of SBTi and its reference standards. SBTN – a unique collaboration of not-for-profi t and world-leading or-
ganizations – provides companies with guidance to set science-based
goals for nature, water, oceans, land and biodiversity.
7. United Nations Global Compact 8. Sustainable Energy for All
In 2004 Enel joined the United Nations Global Compact by committ ing Since 2011, Enel has been a part ner of Sustainable Energy for All, an
to its ten founding principles on human rights, labor standards, envi- international organization that works in collaboration with the United
ronmental protection and anti-corruption. In 2022, Enel continued to Nations and global leaders in the public and private sector to advance
be part of the “CFO Coalition for the SDGs”, which it co-chairs, and sits SDG 7. Since 2020, the Group CEO has chaired the organization's Ad-
on the new Advisory Board. Enel is also a member of the Just Transi- ministrative Board, a position it will hold up until 2023. Enel upheld
tion Think Lab and a Patron of the new Transformational Governance its commitment to the Energy Compacts in 2022: in addition to the
port folio, an initiative to explore new decision-making models to help Group’s Energy Compact and that for the green electrifi cation of
companies be more responsible, ethical, inclusive and transparent. The Sardinia launched in 2021, the Group presented the Santiago Energy
Group also took part in Uniting Business LIVE organized by the Global Compact to boost photovoltaic capacity and promote end-use elec-
Compact during the UN General Assembly week. trifi cation in the city of Santiago de Chile, helping to furt her progress
on SDG 7 as report ed in the 2022 Annual Progress Report . In 2022 Enel
also took part in the SEforALL Forum held in Kigali from May 17 to 19.
9. CSR Europe 12. Global Investors for
Sustainable Development
(GISD) Alliance
Enel has been a member of CSR Europe since 2005. From 2016 to In 2022, Enel continued to uphold its commitment to the Global In-
2020, the Group served as vice-chair of the Board (of which it is cur- vestors for Sustainable Development (GISD) Alliance, an integral part
rently a member) and was re-elected in 2022 for a furt her three-year of the UN Strategy for Financing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
term. Enel also joined the organization’s new fl agship initiative – the Development, of which the Group’s CEO is a member.
“Leaders Hub for an Inclusive Green Deal” – which focuses on a just Enel has been an active contributor in the Alliance's discussions on
transition for an inclusive Green Deal, where Enel has been engaged mobilizing investments in support of sustainable development, par-
in the Steering Committ ee and workforce, communities and consum- ticularly in defi ning specifi c industry metrics related to the SDGs and
ers working groups. The Group also played a key role in the European their integration into existing report ing frameworks.
SDG Summit where the various working groups in which Enel took part
presented their results:
•
Business Roadmap for Just Transition of the People Leaders Hub;
•
Building Inclusive Workplaces Blueprint, outcome of the People
Centered Approach workshops;
•
Upskilling & Reskilling Report of the Upskill4Future Project launched 13. First Movers Coalition
in 2021.
The Group also continued its work on the Biodiversity & Industry plat-
form. In 2022, Enel signed a lett er of commitment to join the First Movers
Lastly, we entered into a dialog to develop a perf ormance indicator Coalition – an initiative led by the US Presidency and State Depart -
for companies on tax transparency and responsible tax behavior, and ment in close collaboration with the World Economic Forum at the
part icipated in the working group to draw up a blueprint and paper on WEF Annual Meeting in Davos. This global initiative is dedicated to
composite raw materials. decarbonizing hard-to-abate industrial sectors which are currently
responsible for 30% of global emissions; Enel also joined the working
group dedicated to Steel.
10. World Business Council 14. Sustainable Stock
for Sustainable Development Exchanges Initiative
Since 2016, Enel has been a member of the World Business Council In 2022, Enel confi rmed its part icipation in the Sustainable Stock
for Sustainable Development and is represented both on the Board Exchanges Initiative as an Offi cial Support er, and expressed its interest
(of which the CEO is a member), and at Liaison Delegate level. In 2022, in part icipating in the new Advisory Board dedicated to Voluntary
the Group continued to be involved in multiple programs and projects, Carbon Markets.
including SOS 1.5 and Energy Transformation, for which it is also a
member of the Steering Committ ee. Enel also joined the new Busi-
ness Commission to Tackle Inequality initiative, of which Chairman
Crisostomo serves as Commissioner. The Group has also played an
15. GreenBiz Executive
active role in the following projects: “Healthy People, Healthy Business”,
“Nature-based solutions” and "Mobility Decarbonization”. During the Network Europe
WBCSD Council Meeting, Enel was engaged in the dialogue on Busi-
ness priorities for the global stocktake and Towards zero-emission
mobility & buildings operations.
In 2022, Enel signed a new part nership with the European GreenBiz
executive network, which support s large companies with achieving an
even more deep-rooted sustainable transformation and increasingly
ambitious development goals.
11. Sustainable Business
Roundtable (SBRT) 16. World Climate Foundation
In 2016, Enel joined the Sustainable Business Roundtable (SBRT), and In early 2023, Enel joined the World Climate Foundation, a mul-
in 2022 it part icipated in meetings focusing on “The Board's Role in ti-stakeholder and multi-sector network to promote the transition to
Sustainability” and “Creating Sustainable Customer Value”. a zero-emission and nature-positive planet through multilateral dia-
logue and part nerships, as well as investment in sustainable solutions.
Our materiality analysis
and priorities for action
2-29 3-1 3-2 3-3
Considering the analysis of the ESG context, the materiality cluding impacts on human rights. The material topics are our
analysis process, via the involvement of stakeholders and rel- action priorities based on which we define the sustainability
evant experts, makes it possible to define the material topics, goals targeted toward creating sustainable short, medium and
that is the topics that represent the organization’s most signif- long-term value and the content to be included in the docu-
icant impacts on the economy, environment and people, in- ments that comprise Corporate Reporting.
The materiality analysis
process framework
Context analysis
Identification and analysis of key ESG megatrends,
current and future, to identify their risks, limit their
impacts, and fully grasp their related opportunities
We involve our stakeholders and
relevant experts
Priorities’ Matrix Double materiality
Identification and Identification of material topics
assessment of priority based on the assessment of the
topics for the Company impacts generated and impacts
(Y-axis) and its key suffered (impact materiality and
stakeholders (X-axis) financial materiality)
representing the Group‘s
Priorities’ matrix
PRIORITIES’ MATERIALITY DOUBLE MATERIALITY
Priorities’ Material topics
Matrix
Understanding Identification Identification Assignment of Assignment Assessment Understanding Analysis on the Assignment Definition Analysis of Prioritization
the context of topics (1st, of the relevance to of priority to of priority to the context impacts of key of priority to of the list of impacts of the most
in which the 2nd, 3rd level) stakeholders stakeholders the topics the topics in which the ESG trends the topics impacts significant
Company (Levels I, II, III) by external in Company Company by external impacts
operates stakeholders strategies operates stakeholders
managed through the digital system
Enel performs the materiality analysis based on the most tance, because it makes it possible for the Company to
widespread international standards, including the Univer- identify the material topics and therefore concentrate on
sal Standard GRI 2021 (Global Reporting Initiative), AA1000 them in the best way possible, both in terms risks as well
(Accountability 1000) and taking into consideration the new as opportunities.
requirements introduced on a European level by the Corpo- Therefore if the analysis of the most significant impacts
rate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) and the Expo- guides the identification of the material topics, the prior-
sure Drafts of the European Sustainability Reporting Stan- ity topics direct the Company’s further efforts for follow-
dards (ESRS) made available by EFRAG (European Financial ing the strategic choices.
Reporting Advisory Group). The Value Reporting Foundation
– SASB and Compass SDG, which supports companies in The materiality analysis process includes a significant ac-
adapting their strategies to the United Nations Sustainable tivity of involving the stakeholders, which makes it pos-
Development Goals, were also considered. sible to always be open to listening to the individuals or
interest groups that are influenced or could be influenced
Over the past two years, the perspective for identifying the by the organization’s activities. Every year we start multiple
priorities attributed by the Company and its stakeholders types of initiatives in order to receive information about
to ESG topics has been enriched by the view of the most what is perceived by internal and external stakeholders in
significant generated and incurred impacts for the Com- terms of priorities, satisfaction and impact of the submit-
pany (the so-called Double materiality – impact materiality ted ESG topics.
and financial materiality). From the point of view of “double
materiality”, the impact model is of fundamental impor- The list of material topics (level I and II) is provided below.
The detailed information regarding the materiality analysis provided in chapter “Materiality analysis process and re-
process and the activities for stakeholder involvement is sults for 2022” of this document.
ECNANREVOG
&
SSENISUB
LAICOS
TNEMNORIVNE
Material topics (Levels I-II)
Decarbonization Innovation, circular Products and services
Customer
of the energy mix economy and digital for electrification and
centricity
transformation digitalization
• Climate change • • •
• Ecosystem of innovation and New technologies and solutions Ability to meet customer needs
Use of energy •
sustainability for homes, condominiums, Quality of customer relations
•
Digitalization and cyber security cities, industries and financial
•
Circular economy activities
•
Electric mobility
Infrastructure and Sound governance and Economic and financial
networks fair corporate conduct value creation
•
Improvement and • Fairness in management • Investment attraction
• d Oe pv ee rl ao tp iom ne an l t m o af n g ar gid es ment of • conduct • Long-term value creation
Structure of the Board of strategy
grids
Directors and Top Management
•
Fair and transparent
communications
Occupational People management, Sustainable supply Engaging local and global
health and safety development and chain communities
• Health and safety of motivation • •
• e o Hm p ee ap r ltl ao hty i ane nge ds o so n af E fc eno te yn l t osr fia t c et sors • • • Q P Ve au lo ua p ili nlt e gy do eef m vc e po l lor op p yo emr ea e dt ne it v l eif re sity • R t s Rh ee ee rs sv p pp ico er eo cn sc ts ui a fb or nl e re d m h m w uea o mnn rt ak a o nsg f e r g im go he o tn d st s i n,o f t he • S m C coo oe mc nni sa t mu l o ula tf nn a lo t id tic o y e a n ic nl o wc tn o i hto m ehm m dthi ec u e v nd eloie lt ociv e pae s mll o ep n- t
employees
supply chain of new projects
Conservation of eco-
systems and environ-
mental management
•
Water management
•
Protection of biodiversity and
natural capital
•
Environmental governance
Our commitment to continuous
improvement
Sustainable investments
Sustainability represents a fundamental lever for creating share of Enel’s share capital, reaching 14.9% at the end
economic and financial value. For this reason a consistent of 2022, up as compared to December 31, 2021 (14.6%).
number of investors have integrated ESG issues in their in- Their share of total institutional investors is also increasing,
vestment portfolio over the past years in order to minimize reaching 26.2% at the end of 2022, compared to 24.6% of
financial risk and guarantee higher returns. the previous year. In absolute terms, 245 (vs 252 at the end
Thanks to international development and growing prof- of 2021) investors with investment funds consider not only
itability, together with a strong sustainability policy and the Group’s financial performance but also the environ-
strategy targeted toward energy transition, as well as the mental, social and governance practices that Enel is inte-
adoption of best practices regarding transparency and grating into its business strategy and all activities along the
corporate governance, Enel shareholders include national entire value chain. Furthermore, again at the end of 2022,
and international investment funds, insurance companies, 42.1% of Enel’s capital was held by investors who were sig-
pension and ethical funds. Since 2014, ESG investment natories of the United Nations Principles for Responsible
funds (active and passive) have more than doubled their Investment (UN PRI).
Growth in ESG investors
ESG investors no.
Float %
Share capital %
252
245
244
182
169
160
150
134 132
19.1 19.1 19.4
13.7 14.1
11.3
10.3 10.5 14.6 14.6 14.9
8.6
10.5 10.8
8.6
7.7 8.0
5.9
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Sustainability-linked finance
In Enel, sustainable finance plays a crucial role in supporting 2021, January 2022 and subsequently in February 2023, in
Group growth, representing approximately 63% of gross line with the annual updates of the Group’s Strategic Plan.
debt at the end of 2022. In particular, structured transac- In the last updated in February 2023, three new KPIs
tions amounting to more than 23 billion euros equivalent (“Scope 1 and 3 GHG emissions intensity relating to In-
were carried out. tegrated Power (gCO /kWh)”, “Absolute Scope 3 GHG
2eq
emissions relating to gas retail (MtCO )” and “Proportion
2eq
Sustainable finance means synergy between private and of Capex aligned to the EU Taxonomy (%)”) were included in
public finance. Private finance conveys private capital to- the framework, which contribute toward reaching SDG 7
wards sustainable investments, i.e. for the benefit of com- and SDG 13 and the European Environmental Objective of
panies whose strategic action is intended to achieve cer- Climate Change Mitigation.
tain sustainability objectives, reflecting the economic and The Group’s financial instruments and operations can
financial value of sustainability in a lower cost of debt. Pub- therefore have an interest rate or other financial or struc-
lic finance, on the other tural terms linked to reaching the goals associated with
hand, stimulates the creation of sustainable investments, the reduction in direct and indirect greenhouse gas
through grants and loans at subsidized interest rates. emissions (SDG 13 “Climate action”), the increase in in-
In 2020, Enel was the first company in the world to set stalled capacity powered by renewable sources (SDG 7
up a “Sustainability-Linked Financing Framework”, an “Affordable and clean energy”) and the percentage of to-
all-encompassing document that extends the sustainabili- tal Capex, carried out during a certain period, in activities
ty-linked approach to all financial debt instruments. Indica- that are qualified as sustainable from an environmental
tors, targets and principles have been defined that govern point of view according to the criteria specified in arti-
the development of sustainable finance throughout the cle 3 of the regulation on EU Taxonomy (2020/852). The
Group with ambition and transparency, linking the financial KPIs and targets included in the latest update of Enel’s
strategy to the sustainability objectives. The “Sustainabil- Sustainability-Linked Financing Framework, published in
ity-Linked Financing Framework” was updated in January February 2023, are listed below.
KPI Actual values Sustainability Performance Targets (SPT)
2022 2022 2023 2024 2025 2030 2040
GHG Scope 1 emission intensity related to power generation
229 148 140 130 72 0
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
GHG Scope 1 and 3 emission intensity related to Integrated Power
218 135 73 0
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
Absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions relating to gas retail (MtCO ) 22.9 20.9 11.4 0
2eq
Percentage of installed renewable capacity (%)(1) 63.1% 60% 65% 66% 76% 85% 100%
Proportion of Capex aligned to the EU Taxonomy (%) 81.9% >80%
Target: Outdated
(1) Excluded from the calculation are 531.1 MW of acquired capacity, deriving from power plants acquired by the Group, according to what is indicated by the
contractual documentation of the individual instruments.
Having achieved a percentage of renewable installed ca- the relative date of reference, will be verified by an exter-
pacity of 63.1% of total installed capacity as of 2022, Enel nal verifier. Furthermore, Enel will report every year on its
has reached the target set in all those financial instruments performance regarding the five KPI, as appropriate, in its
in which the interest rate, or other financial or structural Annual Financial Statements and/or Sustainability Report –
terms of the transaction, are linked to the achievement Non-Financial Statement and/or on its website.(9)
of a percentage of renewable installed capacity of 60%
or more. Particularly noteworthy is the achievement of the In 2022 the Group, through its financial subsidiaries, EFI
targets set by the first sustainability-linked bonds issued and, for the first time EFA (Enel Finance America, LLC), is-
by Enel Finance International NV (EFI) in 2020 in Pound sued approximately 12 billion euros in sustainability-linked
Sterling. The trend of the five above-mentioned KPI, at bonds in various markets and currencies.
(9) https://www.enel.com/investors/investing/sustainable-finance/sustainability-linked-finance/sustainability-linked-bonds.
For this reason, it is worth recalling that in June 2022 EFI economy to be accelerated, with a significant impact in
launched a multi-tranche bond emission on the market terms of GDP, employment and reduction of CO emis-
2
in US dollars and linked one of the trances to the Group’s sions and in full alignment with the European Taxonomy. To
goal of reaching zero emissions of “Scope 1 GHG emis- this end, the Group has identified potential investments of
sions intensity relating to power generation (gCO /kWh)” approximately 4.3 billion euros for the period 2023-2030,
2eq
by 2040. This was the first time ever for an energy multi- with a direct impact on the Group through the ownership
national. and the stewardship model. These initiatives are focused
In May 2022, Enel and EFI increased the amount of the cur- on green hydrogen, renewables and storage, revitalization
rent Sustainability-Linked Revolving Credit Facility from 10 of the photovoltaic manufacturing industry, smart grids,
billion euros to 13.5 billion euros, the world’s largest sus- network resilience and charging infrastructure for electric
tainable credit line linked to SDG 13. mobility. The Group has also promoted partnerships with
With regard to commercial papers, in April 2022 EFI re- both public and private entities, with a view to achieving
newed and increased its commercial paper program from the decarbonization and electrification of consumption
6 to 8 billion euros, which is linked to KPI “Scope 1 GHG through the spread of electric bus fleets, the transition to-
emissions intensity relating to power generation (gCO / wards green ports and the promotion of energy efficiency
2eq
kWh)” of less than or equal to 148 gCO /kWh by 2023 in public buildings.
2eq
and less than or equal to 140 gCO /kWh by 2024. Furthermore, in the context of subsidized loans from in-
2eq
Furthermore, Enel has signed agreements with different fi- ternational and national financial institutions, the Group
nancial counterparties for derivative instruments and sus- is leading an innovation process intended to accelerate
tainable guarantees, both linked to the Group’s ability to the mobilization of capital to support sustainable growth,
reach its sustainability goals over the next years. through the use of sustainability-linked financial instru-
In February 2023, EFI launched a sustainability-linked bond ments.
in two tranches for a total of 1.5 billion euros: the new is- More specifically, in 2022 the Group signed subsidized
sue combined for the first time world-wide a KPI linked to loans for a total of 1.8 billion euros, which, as in the case
the taxonomy of EU with a KPI linked to the United Nations of private financing, provide for the inclusion of sustain-
sustainable development goals (“SDG”), also providing for ability-linked mechanisms linked to SDG 13. Among the
goals of complete decarbonization. main operations, a special mention must be made of the
sustainability-linked borrowings for a total of 800 million
In the field of public finance, the Group supports the eco- dollars by EFA, a Group company, and EKF (Danish ex-
nomic recovery plan and aims to become a strategic part- port-credit agency), the first sustainability-linked borrow-
ner for the adoption of the Green Deal and the Recovery ings agreement for the latter.
Plan at both the national and European level. The objec- In the coming years, Enel will continue to make use of sus-
tive is to drive a sustainable, rapid and effective recovery, tainable finance tools, with the aim of achieving a sustain-
through a wide pipeline of construction projects focused able debt share of the Group’s total debt of approximately
on decarbonization, electricity grids and electrification, 70% by 2025.
allowing the green and digital transition of the European
Participation in international round tables
to promote sustainable finance
The focus on sustainable finance is being confirmed, the SDGs achieving an increase of 55% in SDG finance as
strengthening Enel’s commitment to key global stakehold- compared to the previous year. Furthermore, an Advisory
ers, through the co-chairmanship of the United Nations Board was established, which includes Enel, which will pro-
Global Compact’s CFO Coalition for the SDGs and involve- vide sector-specific and geographical skills, help coordi-
ment in the UN Global Investors for Sustainable Develop- nate exchanges between CFOs and the largest community
ment (GISD) Alliance. of sustainable finance on specific issues, and will provide
After the launch of “Principles on Integrated SDG Invest- information and contacts for the recruitment of new Coa-
ments and Finance”, the CFO Coalition focused its work on lition members.
analyzing the targets defined by companies for the SDGs Equally important are the results obtained from the col-
and the relative KPIs, business cases for the adoption of an laboration with the GISD Alliance, such as the update of
SDG finance & investment strategy, and development of the Model Mandate, which is a guide for asset owners to
profiles by macro sector. In this context, the CFOs there- guarantee that the management and sustainability goals
fore invested more than 110 billion dollars in support of are fully reflected in the agreements and contracts with
the managers of these assets. Furthermore, as Enel is a teriality in Sustainability Reporting“ regarding how double
member of the GISD Alliance, contribution was given to the materiality is integrated in the CSRD and how companies
joint statement of the Alliance as a response to the public can approach it, and ”The Challenge of Circularity in the
consultation launched by the International Sustainability Green Transition“ regarding the circular economy and the
Standard Board (ISSB) in terms of sustainability reporting. energy transition.
Also the work performed on a European level through our Also worth mentioning is Enel’s involvement in the series
stakeholder of reference, CSR Europe, was considerable. In of interviews on sustainable finance organized by the UN
fact, on occasion of the European SDG Summit 2022, Enel Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative.
participated in the roundtables: ”The Role of Double Ma-
Our position on and commitment to the
European Taxonomy
Enel welcomes the development of the European Union the EU Taxonomy Regulation. These issues include ener-
(EU) Taxonomy Regulation, as it provides a standardized, gy security, grid reliability or energy transition, which are
science-based classification system to identify environ- crucial for Europe’s well-being and are appropriately ad-
mentally sustainable economic activities. dressed by other policies, funds and regulations at EU and
The EU Taxonomy Regulation acts as an important enabler Member State level.
to promote sustainable investments and accelerate the The EU Taxonomy Regulation is still in a developmental
decarbonization of the European economy, while at the stage, and a number of important Delegated Acts are still
same time creating reliability and transparency for inves- being finalized at the time of publication of this Sustain-
tors and supporting companies in planning the Net-Zero ability Report. These include acts that will detail the crite-
transition. ria for the remaining four objectives (sustainable use and
We are fully committed to reporting on the implementa- protection of waters and marine resources; transition to
tion of the European Taxonomy Regulation pursuant to a circular economy, pollution prevention and control, and
its Article 8 thereof and the Delegated Act which further protection and restoration of biodiversity and of ecosys-
specifies the content, methodology and presentation of tems) as well as those that will identify economic activities
information to be disclosed by companies of both a finan- that do not have a significant harmful impact on environ-
cial and non-financial nature. mental sustainability and those that do significantly dam-
As regards the Climate Delegated Act, which establishes age it. Completion of the entire regulatory process should
criteria for verifying the contribution to climate mitiga- ensure that all globally recognized economic activities
tion and adaptation, we welcome the different thresholds are considered, thereby reducing current uncertainties
defined in the Taxonomy based on climate and environ- regarding implementation of the process itself.
mental sciences, such as the specific emission limit of
100 gCO /kWh (taking into account the whole life cycle) Going beyond the disclosure requirements of the Taxono-
2eq
to measure the substantial contribution to the climate my, Enel has included the Capex alignment percentage as
change mitigation target set for most energy production one of the key performance indicators of the Sustainabili-
technologies, as it is derived from a robust, science-based ty-Linked Financing Framework used to define the Com-
process. pany’s sustainable financial instruments. With this import-
However, there are some activities that, although not cov- ant move forward, Enel reinforces the role of the Taxonomy
ered under the EU Taxonomy Regulation, are critical to as a driver to promote sustainable investment decisions
promoting the well-being of the public, especially in the and show how sustainability can be fully integrated into the
short and medium term, while contributing to the sustain- financial landscape.
able development in the long term. Enel holds its annual Capital Markets Day to align its capi-
As regards the energy industry, there are some import- tal allocation with the EU Taxonomy set out in its Business
ant sustainability-related issues that the European Com- Plan. In particular, in 2022 Enel announced a target in ex-
mission did not consider when developing the technical cess of 80% Capex alignment for the period 2023-2025
screening criteria, as they were outside the main scope of as part of its contribution to climate mitigation.
Our implementation process and eligible activities
In 2020 we defined a structured process for implement-
ing the European Taxonomy based on 5 phases:
1 2 3 4 5
Identification Analysis Assessment of the Verification of Calculation
of eligible of substantial principle of Do No minimum social of financial
economic contribution Significant Harm safeguards metrics
activities (DNSH) to other
environmental
objectives
Over the past year, we have updated our eligibility analysis plementary Delegated Act published in the Official Journal
according to the process under the final version of the Cli- of the European Union in July 2022.
mate Delegated Act published in the Official Journal of the Below are the activities of the business classified accord-
European Union in December 2021 and under the Com- ing to the European Taxonomy (Art. 8 EU Reg. 852/2020).
European
taxonomy
ELIGIBLE
Aligned Not-aligned Not eligible
•
Solar and wind
• Hydro (0.4%) Trading
Hydro (99.6%)
•
Geothermal
• •
RES Storage New connections Retail sale of power
between a substation or gas to end users
or grid and a generation
Distribution in Europe,
Mapping in
plant with greenhouse
Brazil, Chile and Peru Financial services, general
accordance gas intensity over
without new connections services and other
with Climate between a substation threshold of unmeasured product
Delegated or grid and a generation 100 gCO 2eq/kWh clusters
•
Act and plant with greenhouse gas Distribution in Argentina
Complementary intensity over threshold of and Colombia • Coal
100 gCO /kWh •
Delegated Act 2eq Nuclear(1)
•
Gaseous fossil fuels (CCGT) Fuel-oil and OCGT(2)
Smart Lighting, e-Bus,
Energy Efficiency, Home,
Vivi Meglio Unifamiliare,
Condominium, Customer
Insight, Distributed Energy,
Battery Energy Storage
e-Mobility
(1) The operation of our nuclear generation portfolio is not included among the eligible activities considered by the Complementary Delegated Act in the
generation of electricity from nuclear power plants.
(2) Includes both fuel-oil and gas (OCGT) as it is not possible to divide the two types of fuel. Fuel-oil was considered to be the prevalent fossil fuel and is
therefore not eligible under the EU Taxonomy Regulation.
The high level of alignment of our economic activities with objective while respecting the principle of doing no sig-
the EU Taxonomy Regulation in 2022, made possible by their nificant harm (DNSH) to other environmental objective and
substantial contribution to the climate change mitigation observing the minimum social safeguards, is shown below:
% 2022 alignment of business activities to the European Taxonomy
56.7 The EBITDA percentage of Taxonomy eligible and aligned businesses decreased in 2022
%
of ordinary gross compared to 2021(10) (63.9%), primarily due to changes in revenue (see details below).
operating profit
(EBITDA)
21.4 In 2022, there is a strong increase in absolute terms in turnover compared to 2021(10) (33.9%).
%
of turnover This increase was most pronounced in non-aligned activities, such as power generation from
gaseous fuels, and non-eligible activities, such as trading and marketing of electricity and
gas and power generation from coal, mainly due to the market situation with high prices and
higher thermal generation. The aligned turnover therefore decreases by 12%.
81.9 The actual 2022 Capex for eligible aligned activities is 4.5% higher than the Capex planned
%
of capital expenditure for 2022 in the Strategic Plan 2022-2024 for the same activities. This change is mainly due
(Capex) to higher investments in absolute terms in eligible and aligned activities than planned (over
€0.5 billion) and also to adjustments made in the EU taxonomy accounting process, such as
the integration of costs accounted for under IFRS 16 Leases, paragraph 53 (h), which had not
been taken into consideration in the Strategic Plan 2022-2024.
66.9 The percentage of Opex of Taxonomy eligible and aligned activities increased in 2022
%
of operating compared to 2021 (60.8% in 2021(10)), mainly due to higher maintenance costs incurred in
expenditure (Opex) renewable energy production and Taxonomy-aligned distribution activities.
Details of the steps related to the implementation pro- ties in certain energy sectors and Delegated Regulation
cess and results for each KPI (EBITDA, turnover, Capex (EU) 2021/2178 concerning specific public disclosures for
and Opex) and specific tables on nuclear and fossil gas these economic activities are provided in the appendix to
activities as required by Commission Delegated Regula- the Sustainability Report in the chapter “Our position on
tion (EU) 2022/1214 of 9 March 2022 amending Delegated and commitment to the European Taxonomy”.
Regulation (EU) 2021/2139 concerning economic activi-
(10) The 2021 figure has been restated based on methodological changes mentioned in the section “Process for calculating the financial metrics”.
Sustainability ratings, indices and benchmarks
ESG analysts and rating agencies continuously monitor also thanks to these plans have concerned: increasing the
Enel’s sustainability performance, by different methods, transparency of performance related to ESG issues, rein-
in relation to environmental, social and governance is- forcing the process of due diligence of human rights, the
sues. ESG ratings are a strategic tool to support investors complete mapping and assessment of the climatic asso-
in assessing sustainable business models and identifying ciations with respect to the Paris objectives, defining and
risks and opportunities linked to the sustainability in their reporting the biodiversity “No Net Loss” target, improving
investment portfolio, aiding the development of active and the reporting of Scope 3 emissions, in particular those re-
passive sustainable investment strategies. lated to the supply chain.
Enel is constantly committed to managing and reporting In 2022, Enel maintained its positioning in the main ESG
all ESG aspects, considering the assessments of the rating indices and rankings, reaching leadership positions in
agencies as an important opportunity to improve its per- most cases. Enel was also the first company to fully align
formance in terms of sustainability and devising specific its company reporting to the Net-Zero Company CA100+
action plans with the involvement of the various company Benchmark and was included in the Just Transition As-
units and Business Lines. The main actions implemented sessment of the World Benchmarking Alliance.
Key milestones 2022:
Inclusion in the
Bloomberg Inclusion in the Inclusion in the
Gender-Equality MSCI ESG Leaders Sector Leader in the Climate “A” List
Index for the third for the third year Euronext Vigeo for the fourth year
year running running Eiris 120 running
January June September December
2022 2022 2022 2022
March June December
2022 2022 2022
Among the world's top Industry Leader in the Among the world leaders
utilities in the Equileap TOP FTSE4Good Index in the DJSI World
100 ranking and DJSI Europe
Main ESG Indices & Rankings
ESG Leaders Indices
Main ESG ratings
Scale
Rating Ranking Sector average (low | high)
MSCI AAA Top 10 BBB CCC | AAA
/ 144 utilities
Sustainalytics 21 30 / 296 33.2 100 | 0
ESG Risk Rating (Medium risk)) electric utilities
S&P ESG Scores 90 2 / 250 32 0 | 100
electric utilities
CDP A (climate) - B D- | A
B (water) B
Refinitiv 92 1 / 302 - 0 | 100
ESG Rating electric utilities
FTSE Russell 4.9 1 / 41 2.8 0 | 5
ESG Rating electric utilities
Vigeo Eiris 75 1 / 65 52 0 | 100
ESG Rating electric utilities
ISS ESG Score B - C D- | A+
Reprisk Rating 42 - 48 100 | 0
Advisory panel
This year too, we have involved a group of external experts In particular, for the 2022 Sustainability Report, two sus-
(advisory panel) to strengthen our sustainability reporting. tainability experts were involved, with specific reference
The panel helps to assess and improve the quality and to issues related to corporate strategy and sustainable fi-
credibility of our Sustainability Report and to increase our nance.
level of ambition.
Anjuli Pandit
(Head of Sustainable Bonds –
EMEA & Americas, HSBC)
Anjuli Pandit is Head of Sustainable Bonds for EMEA and the Americas. She
runs a team of ESG specialists across New York and London who support
issuers in the public, private sectors and financials. She is responsible for
“This year’s Sustainability Report also supporting strategic clients with navigating ESG trends in fixed income
confirms Enel’s leadership in reporting markets and enhancing engagement on ESG with investors through labelled
to the market and communicating its ESG frameworks or increased disclosure. Anjuli represents HSBC on the ICMA
sustainability performance in a transparent EXCOM for the Principles. Anjuli has an extensive background in ESG having
manner. The report is a structured worked across the private, public and financial sector as a sustainability expert.
representation of Enel’s enormous Previously Anjuli worked at BNP Paribas, where she led ESG for BNP Paribas’
commitment to analyzing and reporting debt syndicate desk, developing deep relationships with both ESG bond issuers
on the impacts resulting from its capacity and investors. Anjuli also worked in the corporate sector at Tata Group, in
to innovate and grow, by supporting various roles including as a manager for public policy in the Group Chairman’s
workers and communities to achieve the office & heading marketing for an ESG data solutions offering for their IT
objectives of combating climate change business, TCS. She has also worked with a number of non-profit or social
and conserving natural capital.” businesses such as Al Gore’s The Climate Reality Project, Greenlight Planet, the
Obama Administration and The International Energy Agency.
Paolo Taticchi
(Vice preside e professore ordinario di Strategia aziendale e
sostenibilità presso lo University College London)
Paolo Taticchi is Deputy Director and Professor in Strategy and Sustainability at the
School of Management, University College London, one of the top ten universities
in the world.
“Enel’s approach to reporting reflects He has authored numerous scientific articles and books. His academic work has
a clear effort at transparency, as well as seen him teach and develop projects in over 20 countries, conduct training for
great maturity in the ability to quantify Fortune Global 500 companies and give keynote speeches at major corporate and
ESG metrics. My feedback focused on government summits.
simplifying the language and improving Paolo is currently a consultant for major organizations in the United Kingdom,
the graphics to make them easier for United States, Canada, Italy and India, and a scientific advisor to the Italian Ministry
readers to comprehend.” of Ecological Transition. His profile and projects have been featured over 350 times
in international media such as the Financial Times, Forbes, Sky and CNN.
In 2018, he was cited by Poets & Quants and by Forbes in the top 40 business
professors aged under 40 in the world. In 2021, Il Sole 24 Ore named him the most
influential Italian under the age of 40 in the world.
The experts provided input on our process of determining overall view of the management of sustainability in the Enel
the structure of the document and the contents relating Group. Panel members are unpaid.
to the chapter “Our sustainable progress”, which gives an
TCOOPMICPA VNIEYW VIEW
33..
Materiality
analysis
We analyze the context
to identify and analyze the main current and future
ESG megatrends, to limit risk and impact, and take
full advantage of their opportunities.
We involve the different categories of internal
and external stakeholders
to always be open to listening to the individuals
or interest groups that are influenced or could be
influenced by the organization’s activities.
We define the Priorities’ Matrix
by identifying and evaluating priority topics
for the Company and its main stakeholders.
We assess the impacts generated and suffered
(Double materiality)
to identify the material topics, that is the topics
that represent the organization’s most significant
impacts on the economy, environment and people,
including impacts on human rights.
Materiality analysis process
and results for 2022
The sustainability context
2-12 2-29 3-1 3-3 201-2
In order to evaluate the economic, social and environ- is contributing to displacement from rural to urban ar-
mental challenges, identify the risks, limit their impacts eas, and therefore to demographic changes in coun-
and take full advantage of the relative opportunities as tries. Safeguarding resources entails the need to use and
part of the broader materiality analysis process, an anal- adopt technologies with a lower environmental impact.
ysis of the main current and future ESG megatrends was The impacts of the 14 ESG megatrends identified in the
carried out. social, economic and environmental context were ana-
Within today’s complex scenario, new generation and lyzed and evaluated using a specific questionnaire com-
consumption models are emerging, dictated by ongoing pleted by external, national and international stakehold-
technological and demographic changes, as well as by ers and experts. The results confirm climate change, the
new economic and geopolitical balances. digital revolution and the preservation of resources as
Based on the main publications within the scope of the the main ESG megatrends, and highlight the increase in
Electric Utilities sector and the current public policies, inequalities as a further area of focus in the current and
the analysis of the sustainability context identified 14 future scenarios.
main ESG megatrends, which include the digital revo- Furthermore, due to the nature of its business and its
lution, definition of new governance models, climate geographical distribution, the Enel Group is exposed to
and demographic change, preservation of resources. various types of ESG risk, identified within the reference
These phenomena influence both today and in the future framework relating to the risk categories adopted by Enel,
the economic, social and environmental dimensions of of which there are six: strategic, financial, operational,
sustainable development and often are mutually condi- governance and culture, digital technology, and compli-
tioned and act in combination, reinforcing their individual ance. For further details and a description of the actions
impact. The technological revolution and digitalization intended to mitigate their effects and ensure their correct
have in several cases accentuated income disparity and management, refer to the chapter “Sound governance” in
the consequent increase in inequalities. Climate change this document.
Our materiality analysis
framework
2-29 3-1 3-3
Through the materiality analysis, which involves various
categories of internal and external stakeholders, the ma-
terial topics, namely the topics that represent the organi-
zation’s most significant impacts on the economy, environ-
ment, people and human rights, are defined. The results of
this analysis are used to help define the objectives to be
included in the Strategic Plan and the Sustainability Plan,
the achievement of which is contributed to by the various
Group Functions and Business Lines, as well as the topics
covered by the Sustainability Report and other Corporate
Reporting documents.
As a result of the continuous monitoring of stakeholder
expectations (“dynamic materiality”(1)), the traditional way
of looking at the priorities of ESG topics (“Priorities’ Mate-
riality”) has been enriched by incorporating a view of the
significance of the impacts generated and suffered (im-
pact materiality and financial materiality) by the Company
in the reference context (“Double Materiality”).
The impact analysis model is of fundamental importance
as it enables the Company to identify the material topics
and focus on the best way to manage them, both in terms
of risk management as well as in terms of strengthening
opportunities. In addition, the Company must recognize its
strategic priorities, taking into account also the view of its
stakeholders. Identifying the priority ESG topics with which
the Company wants to engage therefore strengthens the
profile of impact management.
(1) The concept of dynamic materiality – announced in 2020 by the World Economic Forum in the document “Embracing the new age of materiality” – rep-
resents materiality as a dynamic process according to which what may be financially irrelevant today can become material tomorrow.
Materiality analysis
Identifi cation of The Group units The process Assessments Assessment of the
topics by analyzing: responsible for foresees the assigned to ESG priorities of the
• stakeholder and stakeholder engagement of the topics considering topics in Company
expert (internal relations identify stakeholders in the the following strategies by the
and external) and update the Company (Group parameters: various Company
engagement list of the relevant Top Management) • Priority Functions and
initiatives stakeholder in order to • Satisfaction Top Management
• sustainability categories to determine the • Impact through ad
rating agencies ensure continuous relevance of the hoc interviews
• sector alignment with categories based and specifi c
benchmarking the sustainability on the following questionnaires
studies context in which parameters:
• strategic Enel operates • Dependence
orientation of the • Infl uence
Company • Tension
• Sustainability
Report ing
standards
Understanding
the context
in which the
Company
operates
Analysis of the
ESG megatrends
based on the
main public
documents
of the utilities
sector and of
public policies
Identifi cation of Assessments Defi nition and Assessment of the Identifi cation of the
the main impacts assigned to ESG weighing of the list signifi cance of the most signifi cant
on ESG trends that topics considering of impacts gener- impacts generated impacts generated
are most relevant the following ated and suff ered and suff ered and suff ered for
through a survey parameters: based on the col- by the internal each ESG topic
dedicated to • Priorities lection of feedback stakeholders, in
external expert s • Satisfaction from the internal close connection
• Impact stakeholders and with the
expert s, consid- main external
ering the point of stakeholders
view of the external
stakeholders
Activity carried out in both processes
YTILAIRETAM
CIMANYD
PRIORITIES’ MATERIALITY
Identifi cation Identifi cation Assignment of Assignment Assessment
of topics (1st, of the relevance to of priority to of priority to
2nd, 3rd level) stakeholders stakeholders the topics the topics
(1st, 2nd, 3rd by external in Company
level) stakeholders strategies
Priorities’
Matrix
Material
topics
Analysis of Assignment Defi nition Analysis of Prioritization
impacts on of priority to of the list of impacts of the most
the main ESG the topics impacts* signifi cant
megatrends by external impacts
stakeholders
DOUBLE MATERIALITY
* The identifi ed impacts are linked to the main ESG megatrends and the 1st, 2nd and 3rd level
priority topics.
From a “double materiality” perspective, according to which in turn can indicate their contribution (negative or
which the Company can influence and be influenced by positive) to sustainable development;
•
ESG topics, the topics are material to one or both of the financial materiality: in line with the main publications
following dimensions: currently available (SASB, ISSB), which identifies and an-
•
impact materiality: in line with the GRI 2021 standard, alyzes the material topics from a financial point of view,
which identifies and analyzes material topics in terms namely those that affect or could affect the Company’s
of the impacts generated by the Company, namely the financial condition or operating results, and are there-
effects that the organization has or could have on the fore most relevant to investors.
economy, the environment, people, and human rights,
Reference standards and governance of the materiality
analysis process
The materiality analysis was developed in line with the on the Sustainability Report, which includes the material-
GRI 2021 and the AccountAbility AA1000 Stakeholder ity analysis, and submit them to the Board of Directors’
Engagement Standard (AA1000SES), taking into account meeting called to approve the Report.
the draft of the ESRS 1 standard – General Requirements The collection, aggregation and processing of data re-
prepared by EFRAG (European Financial Reporting Ad- lating to the engagement and analysis initiatives of the
visory Group), the Value Reporting Foundation – SASB stakeholders and experts involved are managed through
standard and the SDG Compass, which supports compa- a dedicated computer system (“e-mia®: Engagement –
nies in adapting their strategies to comply with the UN materiality & impact analysis”), which also allows the best
SDGs. stakeholder engagement and monitoring practices to be
The Holding’s Sustainability Planning, Performance Man- shared within the Group in line with the Company’s orga-
agement and Human Rights unit, as part of the Innovabil- nizational model. The results, which are updated annually,
ity Function, is responsible for analyzing materiality at are presented to the Group, the individual companies, the
Group level and plays a guidance and coordination role, Business Lines/Corporate Functions and sites (potential
providing guidelines and methodological support for the or actual operating sites), as well as to the different cate-
country, Company and site level analysis conducted by gories of stakeholders. Every two years, an analysis is car-
local managers, with the involvement of stakeholders and ried out with a view to possibly reviewing the topics and
the key figures at Company level. categories of stakeholders so as to take into account any
The materiality analysis and the relative results, such as significant changes in the internal and external context of
the material topics identified, are subject to specific ex- the Company. In 2022, the scope of the materiality anal-
amination by the Corporate Governance and Sustainabil- ysis included 21 countries, covering all continents where
ity Committee, set up within the Board of Directors, when the Group is present. In particular, in 2022, new sites were
examining the Sustainability Plan guidelines. Furthermore, added in Chile, Greece and Peru, with increasing integra-
the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee tion of the results due to the application of the Creating
and the Control and Risks Committee issue prior opinions Shared Value (CSV) tools to the Group’s assets.
Priorities‘ materiality
Identification of the topics
2-29 3-1
The topics subject to the 2022 analysis cover the entire ed with the materiality analysis topics, thus serving as a
sustainable business model and are classified into three guide in defining the relative impacts;
•
categories: business and governance topics, social topics the topics of greatest interest to sustainability rating
and environmental topics, divided into three levels to cover agencies;
•
all the different cases. sector benchmarking studies;
•
In defining the ESG topics, multiple sources were consid- Sustainability Reporting standards;
•
ered and various stakeholder categories were directly and the strategic guidance of the Company as well as input
indirectly involved. The instruments used include: from experts inside and outside the organization.
•
the main ESG megatrends revealed in the sustainability
context analysis (please refer to the section on “The sus- We define and update the list of ESG topics every two
tainability context”). A specific questionnaire, addressed years, with the support of the various units involved each
to external stakeholders and experts, was used to iden- year in the analysis process.
tify the main ESG megatrends. The latter were correlat-
Identification of the
stakeholders
2-29
•
The stakeholders involved in the 2022 materiality analysis Civil society and local and global communities
•
represent the individuals or interest groups that are af- Media
•
fected or could be affected by the organization’s activities, Enel people
•
with a view to successfully implementing its strategies and Suppliers and contractors
achieving its goals. We regularly involve our stakeholders
through numerous listening initiatives in order to capture Please refer to the table in section “Assignment of priori-
their expectations and identify potential and future im- ty to the topics by external stakeholders”, which shows the
pacts (please refer to the section on the “Priorities’ Matrix”). stakeholder categories with their respective degree of rel-
The stakeholders are grouped into categories, classified evance).
on three levels, in line with the structure of the topics an-
alyzed. With the support of the various units responsible for
stakeholder relations, which are involved in the analysis
The first level stakeholder categories are the following: process every year, we identify and update the list of rel-
•
Businesses and trade associations evant stakeholder categories every two years, in order to
•
Customers define a complete list of actual and potential stakeholders
•
Financial community and to ensure continuous alignment with the sustainability
•
Institutions context in which Enel operates.
Assignment of relevance
to stakeholders
2-29
The process of assigning stakeholder relevance is con- In 2022, a specific questionnaire was put to the Top Man-
ducted in accordance with the applicable standards and agement at the Business Line and country level, who were
entails the involvement of the business units responsi- asked to assess the relevance of the categories based on
ble for stakeholder relations and an assessment of each the following parameters:
stakeholder according to their respective relevance.
Importance of the relationship for the stakeholder, indicating groups or individuals who directly or indirectly depend on
Dependence
the activities, products or services and associated services, or on which the organization depends in order to operate
Importance of the relationship for the Company, indicating groups or individuals that may have an impact on the
Influence
organization or on a stakeholder for strategic or operational decision-making
Temporal dimension of the relationship, indicating groups or individuals who require the immediate attention of the
Tension
organization on broader financial, economic, social or environmental topics
(See table in the section “Assignment of priority to the topics by external stakeholders”, which shows the stakeholder categories with their respective degree of
relevance).
In particular, the analysis carried out at Group level shows sition process. On the other hand, the relevance of the
that the relevance of “Suppliers and Contractors” stake- stakeholder “Enel people”, as a strategic player in the pur-
holder has grown over the last year, particularly given the suit of sustainable business and continuous improvement
awareness of their key role in managing the energy tran- of the Company, remains constant.
Assignment of priority to the topics
by external stakeholders
2-29 3-1 3-2 3-3
Having identified the topics and stakeholder categories used in the materiality analysis are part of the various en-
and weighted them according to their respective rele- gagement initiatives carried out during the year by the
vance, the materiality analysis process then proceeds with Group’s various units. These initiatives include: customer
an assessment of the priorities assigned to the topics by satisfaction surveys; the “Wellbeing Global Survey”, aimed
the external stakeholders, taking into account the relat- at collecting expectations and the degree of satisfaction
ed impacts generated on the economy, the environment, regarding the numerous initiatives promoted by the Com-
people, and human rights (horizontal axis of the priorities pany concerning the physical and psychological well-be-
and expectations matrix) (please refer to the “2022 Prior- ing of Enel people; questionnaires from sustainability rat-
ities’ Matrix”). An analysis of the priorities assigned by the ing agencies; customer complaints; relations with analysts
Group’s relevant stakeholders results in the definition of and investors, representative and trade associations; insti-
the priority topics for stakeholders, based on which the tutional relations at national and local levels, as well as with
potential and actual impacts of the Company are defined. trade unions; media monitoring and opinion polls. In some
cases, where necessary, ad hoc materiality analysis initia-
In 2022, the priorities assigned to the topics were identi- tives were implemented, including an online questionnaire
fied thanks to the implementation of approximately 460 for suppliers or focus groups aimed at specific categories
engagement initiatives (surveys, focus groups, interviews, of stakeholders.
document analysis, etc.) with relevant stakeholders for
the Group. Less than 1% of the assessments were carried The following table shows, for each internal and external
out indirectly, through interviews with the business units stakeholder category identified at 1st Level and involved
responsible for the relationship with the reference stake- in the materiality analysis process, the respective degree
holder (“self-assessment”), demonstrating the objectivity of relevance, the engagement initiatives used, the priority
of the analyses carried out. The engagement initiatives topics and the Company’s response methods.
Relevance PARAMETERS:
Dependence import ance of Infl uence import ance of Tension temporal
the relationship for the stake- the relationship for the dimension of the
holder Company relationship
Main high/ Our response to
List of 1st level Type of Engagement very high stakeholders in the
no.(1) no.(1)
stakeholders engagement initiative priority topics CHAPTERS/paragraphs
for stakeholders of the Report
Focus group 8
One-on-one interview 8
Open response 1
questionnaire
Qualitative 45 Indirect survey 1
Businesses assessment • CLEAN ELECTRIFICATION
Infrastructure and
and trade - Electrifi cation of uses,
Additional indexes 16 networks
associations Digitalization of grids
•
Decarbonization of
ZERO EMISSIONS
the energy mix
Survey with focus on ESG 5 AMBITION
topics •
Occupational
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
health and safety
AND SAFETY
Document analysis 6
Surveys sent directly by 22
Survey 22 the e-mia® system for
assessment of ESG topics
priority
Textual analysis(2) 3 Textual analysis based on 3
external sources
Focus group 6
One-on-one interview 4
Open response 5
questionnaire
Qualitative 48 CLEAN ELECTRIFICATION
assessment • - Electrifi cation of uses,
Customers Additional indexes 6 Infrastructure and Digitalization of grids
networks
Survey with focus on ESG 13 • Customer CLEAN ELECTRIFICATION
topics centricity - Electrifi cation of uses
• OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
Document analysis 14 Occupational AND SAFETY
health and safety
Surveys sent directly by 23
Survey 23 the e-mia® system for
assessment of ESG topics
priority
Textual analysis(2) 1 Textual analysis based on 1
external sources
(1) An engagement initiative could involve multiple stakeholder categories.
(2) The textual analyses are perf ormed using the art ifi cial intelligence of the e-mia® system.
Main high/ Our response to
List of 1st level Type of Engagement very high stakeholders in the
no.(1) no.(1)
stakeholders engagement initiative priority topics CHAPTERS/paragraphs
for stakeholders of the Report
Focus group 10
One-on-one interview 2
•
Decarbonization of
Financial the energy mix INNOVATION
Qualitative 39
community assessment • Sound governance DIGITALIZATION
Additional indexes 21 and fair corporate
conduct CLEAN ELECTRIFICATION
Survey with focus on ESG 4 •
Products and - Electrifi cation of uses
topics
services for
electrifi cation and SOUND GOVERNANCE
Document analysis 2 digitalization
Surveys sent directly by 12
Survey 12 the e-mia® system for
assessment of ESG topics
priority
Focus group 6
One-on-one interview 21
Indirect survey 1
Qualitative 69 • Preservation of
assessment Additional indexes 17 ecosystems and CONSERVATION OF
Institutions
environmental NATURAL CAPITAL
Survey with focus on ESG 13 management
topics ZERO EMISSIONS
•
Decarbonization of AMBITION
the energy mix
Document analysis 11
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
•
Occupational AND SAFETY
Surveys sent directly by 29 health and safety
Survey 29 the e-mia® system for
assessment of ESG topics
priority
Textual analysis(2) 6 Textual analysis based on 6
external sources
Focus group 15
One-on-one interview 26
Civil society and Qualitative 83 Indirect survey 1 • Occupational
assessment
health and safety OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
local and global
Additional indexes 17 AND SAFETY
communities •
Decarbonization of
the energy mix ZERO EMISSIONS
Survey with focus on ESG 24
AMBITION
topics •
Preservation of
ecosystems and CONSERVATION OF
Surveys sent directly by 44 environmental NATURAL CAPITAL
Survey 44 the e-mia® system for management
assessment of ESG topics
priority
Textual analysis(2) 22 Textual analysis based on 22
external sources
(1) An engagement initiative could involve multiple stakeholder categories.
(2) The textual analyses are perf ormed using the art ifi cial intelligence of the e-mia® system.
Main high/ Our response to
List of 1st level Type of Engagement very high stakeholders in the
no.(1) no.(1)
stakeholders engagement initiative priority topics CHAPTERS/paragraphs
for stakeholders of the Report
Focus group 3
Indirect survey 1 •
Infrastructure and
networks
Media Qualitative 24 Additional indexes 17 CLEAN ELECTRIFICATION
assessment • Engaging local - electrifi cation of uses,
digitalization of the grids
Survey with focus on ESG 1 and global
topics communities
ENGAGING COMMUNITIES
•
Document analysis 2 Preservation of CONSERVATION OF
ecosystems and
NATURAL CAPITAL
environmental
Surveys sent directly by 13
management
Survey 13 the e-mia® system for
assessment of ESG topics
priority
Focus group 22
One-on-one interview 3 •
Sound governance
and fair corporate
Enel people Qualitative 54 Additional indexes 9 conduct SOUND GOVERNANCE
assessment
•
Survey with focus on ESG 19 Decarbonization of ZERO EMISSIONS
topics the energy mix AMBITION
•
Document analysis 1 People EMPOWERING ENEL
management, PEOPLE
development and
Surveys sent directly by 43
motivation
Survey 43 the e-mia® system for
assessment of ESG topics
priority
Focus group 7
One-on-one interview 7
Open response 2
•
Suppliers and questionnaire Sound governance
Qualitative 37 and fair corporate SOUND GOVERNANCE
contractors assessment Additional indexes 7 conduct
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
•
Occupational AND SAFETY
Survey with focus on ESG 13
health and safety
topics
SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY
•
Sustainable supply CHAIN
Document analysis 1 chain
Surveys sent directly by 27
Survey 27 the e-mia® system for
assessment of ESG topics
priority
(1) An engagement initiative could involve multiple stakeholder categories.
Since 2016, in order to more precisely define the topics on holders and their level of satisfaction. It should be noted
which the Company needs to focus, Enel has been com- that the topic related to the “Sustainable supply chain” ex-
bining the stakeholders’ assessment of priorities with an perienced an increase in satisfaction in terms of position-
analysis of their satisfaction with the topics identified. The ing compared to 2021, denoting appreciation for Enel’s
2022 results of the expectations analysis show a substan- strong commitment to managing the environmental and
tial alignment between the priorities assigned by stake- social impacts associated with the supply chain.
Assessment of priority to the topics
in Company strategies
2-29
For the purposes of drawing up the 2022 Priorities’ Ma- by the Group through its own policies and conduct criteria.
trix, Enel assessed the priority of the topics in its strategies This analysis involved the Company’s various Functions and
(vertical axis of the Priorities’ Matrix), taking into account Top Management (Chief Executive Officer and Chairman)
the guidelines set by the Strategic Plan, the objectives of through ad hoc interviews and specific questionnaires.
the Functions/Business Lines and the commitments made
Priorities‘
Priorities’ Matrix Matrix
3-1 3-2
•
The aspects covered in the previous paragraphs, name- Decarbonization of the energy mix – The fight against
ly the priority of topics for stakeholders and in corporate climate change has become one of the key challeng-
strategies, contribute to the development of the Priorities’ es facing companies. In the utilities sector in particular,
Matrix. this has led to the development of regulations and pub-
The process makes it possible to identify the priorities for lic policies aimed at promoting a global zero emissions
stakeholders and the Company at both Group and coun- economy, in which electrification of the energy demand
try level, down to each Business Line/Corporate Function plays a key role. Institutional investors are devoting ev-
and individual asset (understood as a potential or effective er-greater attention to the management and results of
operating site). companies in relation to climate change. In this con-
In 2022, the analysis covered 21 countries, 64 companies text, Enel has set specific objectives for the reduction
and 36 sites and considered 463 engagement initiatives of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, focusing on the
involving stakeholders relevant to the Group. growth of renewable capacity and the gradual closure of
Shown below are: coal plants (please refer to the “Sustainability Plan 2023-
•
the 2022 Priorities’ Matrix of the Enel Group, which 2025” and the “Zero emissions ambition” sections of this
considers the contributions of the main companies in- document).
•
volved in the process, weighted according to their rel- People management, development and motivation – In
evance in relation to the type of business in which they line with our Open Power approach, we work every day
operate; to create an open, inclusive and dynamic working envi-
•
the main 2022 priorities – in consolidated view – of ronment that seeks to incorporate diversity, attract new
some of the main companies participating in the mate- talent and empower our people. In particular, Enel’s com-
riality analysis process. mitment to closing the gender gap and ensuring equal
pay continues with tangible results, the result of actions
The following are some of the main priority topics and how that affect all stages of women’s career paths in the or-
they should be handled. ganization. The Long-Term-Incentive Plan 2022 actually
supports these trends, confirming the target “percent-
•
Occupational health and safety – Enel considers the age of women in Top Management succession plans” of
health, safety, mental and physical integrity of people to 45% by the end of 2025, with a view to continuing a pol-
be among the Group’s main priorities. Optimal manage- icy of preparing a suitable pool for managerial appoint-
ment of this topic helps to generate trust and boost the ments in the near future.
commitment of people in relation to the work they per-
form, also helping to improve performance and raise pro- The priority topics for stakeholders and the Company thus
ductivity and efficiency. As a confirmation of Enel’s con- defined are subject to analysis according to the double
stant commitment to safety in 2022, the Lost Time Injury materiality approach, which aims to identify the material
Frequency Rate (LTIFR) for Enel and contractor companies topics (please refer to the section “Material topics”).
combined was down by 22% compared to 2021.
LOW
Business and governance topics Social topics
A Infrastructure and networks G Engaging local and global communities
B Decarbonization of the energy mix H People management, development and motivation
C Customer centricity I Occupational health and safety
D Products and services for electrifi cation and digitalization L Sustainable supply chain
E Sound governance and fair corporate conduct
Environmental topics
F Economic and fi nancial value creation
B Decarbonization of the energy mix
N Innovation, circular economy and digital transformation
M Preservation of ecosystems and environmental management
The main 2022 priorities for the Countries(1)
B I F
A H I
I E A
B I A
(1) The 2022 materiality analysis concerned 21 countries. The chart shows the results of only some of the main companies that part icipated in the process. As
concerns Enel Américas, in 2022 Uruguay did not part icipate in the materiality analysis process.
HGIH
Priorities assigned by stakeholder
seigetarts
etaroproc
ni
seitiroirP
I
F
C
B
E
H
A
N
G
D M
L
5
3
1 3 5
LOW HIGH
HGIH
Priorities assigned by stakeholder
seigetarts
etaroproc
ni
seitiroirP
2022 Priorities’ Matrix
21 Countries
64 Companies
I
36 Sites
463 Engagement
initiatives
F
C
B
E
H
A
N
G
D M
L
5
3
1 3 5
HIGH
Double materiality
Definition, analysis and prioritization
of the most significant impacts
3-1 3-2 3-3
The materiality analysis process has evolved and the tradi- Once the impacts have been identified, Enel proceeds with
tional view is now complemented with that of double ma- their analysis, that is with the assessment of the respective
teriality, in which financial materiality and impact materiality significance, both on a material level of the impact as well
each represent an equally important perspective. Through as financial materiality level, through the involvement of
the involvement of the Group’s key stakeholders and inter- the Group’s internal stakeholders and experts who, in per-
nal and external experts, the process seeks to analyze the forming their business activities, have a greater relation-
most significant impacts in order to identify material topics, ship with the main stakeholders and so have a complete
taking into account – especially for negative impacts – the view of the actual and/or potential impacts in the external
due diligence process and the relative results. context in which Enel operates.
Enel has therefore identified the impacts based on the fol- As regards the impact materiality, in 2022, Enel strength-
lowing activities: ened the methodology for analyzing the impacts generat-
•
analysis of the main ESG megatrends: a survey of exter- ed by the Company to bring it into line with the provisions
nal (national and international) stakeholders and experts, of GRI 2021. Following the pilot project launched in 2019
with the aim of assessing the impacts of the main ESG and its completion in 2020 and 2021, with the involvement
megatrends through an analysis of the context in which of all the countries participating in the process, in 2022
we operate. (please refer to the section “The sustainabil- the Group conducted an impact materiality analysis which,
ity context”); through the involvement of the relevant stakeholders and
•
assignment of priority to the topics by external stake- experts and based on the best practices dictated by the
holders: more than 460 engagement initiatives involv- due diligence process, identified the impacts generated by
ing the Group’s main external stakeholders (for example, the Company on the economy, the environment and peo-
through surveys, focus groups, desk analysis, etc.), in or- ple, considering any violations of human rights as among
der to assess the priority, satisfaction and impact of ESG the negative impacts and the contribution to sustainable
topics (please refer to the section “Assessing priorities development among the positive impacts. The impact
and satisfaction of topics assigned by stakeholders”); analysis was carried out by each local Sustainability and
•
definition of the impacts list: direct involvement of in- Holding unit in order to assess the significance of the im-
ternal stakeholders and experts in defining and weight- pacts, a process involving the Group’s internal experts and
ing the list of impacts generated and suffered on the stakeholders who, in performing their business activities,
basis of their feedback, also taking into account the have a close relationship with the main stakeholders and
views of external stakeholders. The impacts list has so have a complete view of the actual and/or potential im-
therefore been subject to thorough analysis and review pacts in the external context in which Enel operates. This
by experts who internally oversee business activities, analysis took into account the internal company context,
giving rise to positive and negative impacts that affect including upstream and downstream activities in its val-
or may affect the relationship with the Group’s relevant ue chain, the main stakeholders, and the best practices
stakeholders. dictated by the due diligence process, and assessed the
(actual and potential) positive and negative impacts gen-
erated by the Company. Negative impacts were analyzed
according to their significance based on the degree of nal context;
•
severity(2) and likelihood, in the case of potential impacts. type: whether actual or potential;
•
Positive impacts were analyzed according to their signifi- the time horizon for their occurrence (short-, medium-
cance(3) and based on their scope and direct and indirect or long-term);
•
contribution to the SDGs, in line with the commitment impact management: the Company strategies and per-
made by the Group, and with respect to the management formance, in line with the management of the main types
instruments put in place to monitor the objectives set. On of risk faced by the Enel Group;
•
the basis of the impact materiality assessment, for report- additional information: whether the reported impact is
ing purposes the most significant positive and negative or could be a human rights concern; the reference SDGs;
impacts generated (actual and/or potential) were selected the phase of the value chain affected by the impact; the
according to their highest degree of significance for each stakeholders that can or could be positively or negative-
material topic (1st Level). The table below shows: ly affected by the impact; whether the topic related to
the reported impact is a priority for the stakeholders in-
•
the most significant impacts – associated with ESG volved in the materiality analysis process; reference to
megatrends, the material topic (1st, 2nd, 3rd Level) and the Sustainability Plan and to the chapter of the Report
related GRI – both positive and negative generated di- that describes in detail the management methods and
rectly and indirectly by the Company vis-à-vis the exter- results related to the impact.
(2) The severity of an actual or potential negative impact is determined by the following parameters:
• scale: how severe the impact is;
• scope: how widespread the impact is;
• irremediable character: how difficult it is to counteract or repair the resulting damage.
(3) The significance of a positive impact is determined by the scale and scope of the impact, as well as by the probability of the impact in the event it is poten-
tially positive.
Table of the most signifi cant impacts
ESG megatrend Material topic Material topic Description of the impact Relevant GRI(1) Type(2) –
(I level) (II, III level) Duration(3)
Climate change, Decarboni- Climate change – Reduction in CO Contribution to the achievement GRI 305: Emissions Actual
2
Resources zation of the emissions of international and national goals
preservation energy mix to achieve a zero-emission global
economy and society and to limit
the increase in the global average
temperature (1.5 °C - 2 °C)
Resources Decarbonization Energy use – Reducing energy Major and widespread commitment GRI 302: Energy Actual
preservation of the energy mix consumption to effi cient and sustainable use of
energy in all business processes
through initiatives to improve and
accelerate the transition to more
effi cient technologies aimed at
reducing energy consumption and
promoting renewable sources
Urbanization, Infrastructure Network improvement and Guarantee grid extension and micro- DMA (former EU23): Actual
Digital revolution and networks development – Development of grid solutions in rural and suburban Access to energy
micro-grids and rural electrifi cation areas through the creation of new
grid connections
Resources Preservation of Protecting biodiversity and natural Strong and widespread commitment GRI 304: Biodiversity Actual
preservation ecosystems and capital – Conservation and promotion to biodiversity through initiatives
environmental of local natural heritage aimed at protecting and restoring
management habitats and natural capital, in
part icular in protected areas and in
respect of threatened species,and
the adoption of location and design
criteria that can guarantee no-
net-deforestation, No Go in natural
UNESCO World Heritage sites and
no net loss of biodiversity
Well-being Occupational Safety of contractors working at Enel Decrease in the number of injuries GRI 403: Occupational Actual
health and sites – Promotion of a safety culture and illnesses among contractors, health and safety
safety among contractors working at Enel thanks to improved safety culture
GRI 410: Safety
sites
practices
Inclusion and People Quality of corporate life – Work-life Increasing workers’ quality of life and GRI 401: Employment Actual
gender equality, management, balance well-being by improving work-life
Future work development and balance and psychological/physical
motivation well-being
Inclusion and People Valuing workers’ diversity – Valuing Valuing diversity (e.g. inclusion of GRI 405: Diversity and Actual
gender equality, management, disabilities, Valuing age diversity, people with disabilities, diversity in equal opport unity
Future work development and Valuing gender diversity, Valuing terms of age, gender, ethnicity, etc.)
motivation other diversities to develop and att ract new talent
and ensure their recruitment
STCAPMI
EVITISOP
Table of the most significant impacts
ESG megatrend Material topic Material topic Description of the impact Relevant GRI(1) Type(2) –
(I level) (II, III level) Duration(3)
Climate change, Decarboni- Climate change – Reduction in CO Contribution to the achievement GRI 305: Emissions Actual
2
Resources zation of the emissions of international and national goals
preservation energy mix to achieve a zero-emission global
economy and society and to limit
the increase in the global average
temperature (1.5 °C - 2 °C)
Resources Decarbonization Energy use – Reducing energy Major and widespread commitment GRI 302: Energy Actual
preservation of the energy mix consumption to efficient and sustainable use of
energy in all business processes
through initiatives to improve and
accelerate the transition to more
efficient technologies aimed at
reducing energy consumption and
promoting renewable sources
Urbanization, Infrastructure Network improvement and Guarantee grid extension and micro- DMA (former EU23): Actual
Digital revolution and networks development – Development of grid solutions in rural and suburban Access to energy
micro-grids and rural electrification areas through the creation of new
grid connections
Resources Preservation of Protecting biodiversity and natural Strong and widespread commitment GRI 304: Biodiversity Actual
preservation ecosystems and capital – Conservation and promotion to biodiversity through initiatives
environmental of local natural heritage aimed at protecting and restoring
management habitats and natural capital, in
particular in protected areas and in
respect of threatened species,and
the adoption of location and design
criteria that can guarantee no-
net-deforestation, No Go in natural
UNESCO World Heritage sites and
no net loss of biodiversity
Well-being Occupational Safety of contractors working at Enel Decrease in the number of injuries GRI 403: Occupational Actual
health and sites – Promotion of a safety culture and illnesses among contractors, health and safety
safety among contractors working at Enel thanks to improved safety culture
GRI 410: Safety
sites
practices
Inclusion and People Quality of corporate life – Work-life Increasing workers’ quality of life and GRI 401: Employment Actual
gender equality, management, balance well-being by improving work-life
Future work development and balance and psychological/physical
motivation well-being
Inclusion and People Valuing workers’ diversity – Valuing Valuing diversity (e.g. inclusion of GRI 405: Diversity and Actual
gender equality, management, disabilities, Valuing age diversity, people with disabilities, diversity in equal opportunity
Future work development and Valuing gender diversity, Valuing terms of age, gender, ethnicity, etc.)
motivation other diversities to develop and attract new talent
and ensure their recruitment
Priority for stakeholders and the Group Impact relevant on human rights
(1) “-” is report ed where the material topic is not currently covered by a specifi c GRI (2) Type: actual/potential
(3) Duration: Short term (up to 1 year) Medium term (2 to 5 years) Long term (>5 years)
Impact management Rele- Stakeholders involved Stage in Ref. in Sustain-
vant value chain ability Plan and
SDG 2022 Sustainability
Report chapter
Enel has brought forward its commitment by 10 years, from 2050 to 2040, to complete the 13 Civil society and Zero emissions
decarbonization process of its entire value chain, by reducing its own direct and indirect emissions to local and global ambition
zero (so-called “Net-Zero”). communities
To this end, Enel has constructed a roadmap that includes medium-term objectives to 2030 against 2017 as a Customers
benchmark, as cert ifi ed by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) in line with the 1.5 °C pathway. In part icular, Financial community
the Company has committ ed to reducing (i) direct greenhouse gas emissions per kWh by 80%; (ii) emissions Enel people
related to electricity sales per kWh by 78%; (iii) total emissions related to the retail sale of gas by 55%; (iv) other Media
total direct and indirect emissions by 55%. The Group’s strategic actions make it possible to mitigate the poten- Institutions
tial risks and exploit the opport unities associated with transition variables. In this context, capital employment
is centered on decarbonization through the development of assets for generation from renewable sources
(aimed at achieving 100% renewable installed capacity by 2040), on enabling infrastructure linked to the devel-
opment of networks, and on the implementation of platform models, fully exploiting technological and digital
evolution which will favor consumption electrifi cation and the development of new services for end customers.
Commitment to an effi cient and sustainable use of energy is guaranteed through the adoption of energy 12 13 Civil society and Nature
effi ciency measures and improvement of energy consumption in all industrial processes. In pursuit of this local and global Conservation of
objective, the transition to more effi cient and renewable technologies plays a decisive role in promoting a communities natural capital
process of electrifi cation of energy consumption.
Enel is constantly at work to develop and improve the effi ciency of the transport and distribution network, 7 9 Businesses and trade Clean
in coordination with the other entities operating on the network infrastructure in various capacities. associations electrifi cation
11
Enel carries out actions of network development, modernization, and maintenance on the infrastructure Civil society and
existing in all Countries, to improve the quality of the service delivered and reduce the number and local and global
duration of outages (SAIDI and SAIFI). communities
Reaching and connecting vast rural and remote areas of the world means integrating technological Customers
innovation with socio-economic development. In fact, Enel Grids has carried out numerous electrifi cation Institutions
projects, in which grid extension solutions are adopted, depending on the specifi c context. In part icular, Media
Enel aims to guarantee access to energy in rural and suburban areas by increasing the number of new Enel people
connections and at the same time making the grid increasingly innovative, digital and resilient, including Suppliers and
through the spread of the latest smart meters. contractors
In environmental and natural ecosystems, Enel is implementing suitable actions in order to protect, 14 15 Businesses and trade Nature
restore and conserve biodiversity, in species and natural habitats, respecting the principle of mitigation associations Conservation of
hierarchy (avoid, minimize, restore and compensate), as well as suitable terrestrial, marine and river Civil society and natural capital
monitoring activities to check the eff ectiveness of the adopted measures. In this context, the Group local and global
acknowledges that protecting the environment and natural resources, combating climate change and communities
contributing to sustainable economic development are strategic factors in the planning, operation and Institutions
development of our activities. This commitment is refl ected in a dedicated principle in the Policy on
Human Rights, in line with the environmental policy which also includes respect for biodiversity.
Enel is an active part of the international debate with stakeholders and the networks with the most
infl uence on the topic (for example, Business for Nature, Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosure,
World Business Council for Sustainable Development and Science Based Targets for Nature) regarding
natural and biodiversity topics.
Enel implements prevention, mitigation and recovery programs and plans regarding the impacts on
ecosystems and natural habitats in all critical and/or signifi cant sites for all our assets.
Enel considers the health, safety and psychological and physical well-being of individuals the most precious 8 Suppliers and Occupational
asset to be protected at all times of life. It is therefore committ ed to developing and promoting a robust safe- contractors health and safety
ty culture for the people who work with and for the Group. Enel’s commitment is demonstrated in the Group’s Enel people
Policy on Human Rights, the “Declaration of Commitment to Health and Safety” and the “Stop Work Policy”.
In part icular, the approach towards suppliers is to consider each of them as a part ner with whom to share the
cardinal principles of safety and the environment. Enel is committ ed to developing and disseminating a ro-
bust culture of health, safety and well-being throughout its entire corporate perimeter, in order to guarantee
a workplace that is free of risks to health and safety, and to promote behaviors oriented towards “work-life
integration”. It is therefore actively committ ed to promoting personal and organizational well-being as ena-
bling factors for the engagement and innovative potential of the people who work with us, including suppliers
and contractors. The following are implemented for suppliers: a continuous process of fi eld inspections and
consequence management; a Contractor Safety Part nership program, to share Enel’s core values on safety; a
Safety Support activity plan with improvement pathways and support for the training of contractor staff .
Enel is committ ed to developing and disseminating a robust culture of health, safety and well-being 3 4 Enel people Empowering Enel
throughout the entire corporate perimeter, in order to guarantee a workplace that is free of risks to people
5 8
health and safety, and to promote behaviors oriented towards “work-life integration”. It is therefore actively
committ ed to promoting personal and organizational well-being as enabling factors for the engagement and 10
innovative potential of people. Enel’s commitment is demonstrated in the Group’s Policy on Human Rights.
Enel has defi ned a global well-being framework that focuses on people, considering psychological well-
being, work-life balance, and physical, social, economic, ethical and cultural well-being to be fundamental.
Enel promotes the principles of diversity, inclusion, equal treatment and opport unity and is committ ed to 5 8 Enel people Empowering Enel
guaranteeing the right to working conditions that respect the dignity of every person and to creating a people
10
working environment in which people are treated fairly and valued for their uniqueness. This commitment
is refl ected in the Policy on Human Rights, and in the adoption of a Diversity and Inclusion Policy, published
in parallel with adoption of the seven Women Empowerment Principles (WEP) promoted by the UN Global
Compact and UN Women, in compliance with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The most signifi cant
initiatives include actions dedicated to a systematic impact on the various aspects of the gender gap and
inclusion, specifi c listening and support services made available to people during the pandemic, projects
dedicated to people with vulnerabilities, awareness initiatives on LGBTQ+ topics and cultural diversity.
ESG megatrend Material topic Material topic Description of the impact Relevant GRI(1) Type(2) –
(I level) (II, III level) Duration(3)
New governance Sound Fairness in management conduct Contributing to internal awareness GRI 1: Foundation Actual
models governance and and dissemination to external
GRI 2-2-22: Statement
fair corporate stakeholders (contractors, business
on sustainable
conduct part ners) of the principles of integrity
development
and ethics in business conduct
strategy; 2-23: Policy
commitments; 2-24:
Embedding policy
commitments
GRI 205: Anti-corruption
GRI 206: Anti-
competitive behavior
GRI 415: Public policy
Increase in Engaging local Social and economic development Social and economic development in GRI 413: Local Actual
inequalities and global of communities – Development and the areas where the Group operates, communities
communities maintenance of local supply chains, Em- by means of economic investments
ployment development in areas where aimed at promoting the energy
we maintain a presence, Infrastructure transition
development in areas where we main-
tain a presence, Transfer of skills and
upskilling among the local population,
Support for entrepreneurial activities in
the community, Access to basic goods
Increase in Sustainable Responsible management of the Contribution to reducing Enel’s GRI 204: Procurement Actual
inequalities supply chain procurement of goods, services and supply carbon footprint through a practices
work – Integration of environmental, sustainable supply chain
GRI 308: Supplier
safety and sustainability criteria
Environmental
and perf ormance in purchasing
Assessment
management
New economy, Products and Electric mobility - Deployment of Promoting the electrifi cation of - Actual
Digital revolution, services for electromobility infrastructure cities through electric mobility
New mobility, electrifi cation and
Urbanization digitalization
Empowered Customer Ability to meet customer needs Increasing the quality of services GRI 417: Marketing and Actual
customer centricity – Quality and timeliness of the provided to customers (e.g. labelling
commercial off ering promotion of accessible products
DMA (former EU23):
and services, promotion of “slow
Access to energy
shopping” and inclusive off ers, etc.).
Disclosure of EU DMA
information (former
EU24)
New economy, Innovation, Innovation and sustainability Support ing adequate dissemination - Actual
Digital revolution, circular economy ecosystem – Promotion of of innovation and the digitalization
Resources and digital part nerships, Development of the process to fi nd the best solutions
preservation transformation Innovation Hub&Lab network, Support on a global scale and to accelerate
and relationships with start ups, the development of new business
Intellectual propert y, Dissemination models (e.g. promoting part nerships,
of the culture of innovation and development of innovation hubs and
sustainability, Crowdsourcing laboratory networks, etc.)
New economy, New Economic and Long-term value creation strategy – Increase in investments/fi nancial GRI 201: Economic Actual
governance models fi nancial value Business Ownership model, Business resources to support the energy perf ormance
creation Stewardship model transition and low-carbon
GRI 2-2-6: Activities,
technologies
value chain and other
business relationships
STCAPMI
EVITISOP
ESG megatrend Material topic Material topic Description of the impact Relevant GRI(1) Type(2) –
(I level) (II, III level) Duration(3)
New governance Sound Fairness in management conduct Contributing to internal awareness GRI 1: Foundation Actual
models governance and and dissemination to external
GRI 2-2-22: Statement
fair corporate stakeholders (contractors, business
on sustainable
conduct partners) of the principles of integrity
development
and ethics in business conduct
strategy; 2-23: Policy
commitments; 2-24:
Embedding policy
commitments
GRI 205: Anti-corruption
GRI 206: Anti-
competitive behavior
GRI 415: Public policy
Increase in Engaging local Social and economic development Social and economic development in GRI 413: Local Actual
inequalities and global of communities – Development and the areas where the Group operates, communities
communities maintenance of local supply chains, Em- by means of economic investments
ployment development in areas where aimed at promoting the energy
we maintain a presence, Infrastructure transition
development in areas where we main-
tain a presence, Transfer of skills and
upskilling among the local population,
Support for entrepreneurial activities in
the community, Access to basic goods
Increase in Sustainable Responsible management of the Contribution to reducing Enel’s GRI 204: Procurement Actual
inequalities supply chain procurement of goods, services and supply carbon footprint through a practices
work – Integration of environmental, sustainable supply chain
GRI 308: Supplier
safety and sustainability criteria
Environmental
and performance in purchasing
Assessment
management
New economy, Products and Electric mobility - Deployment of Promoting the electrification of - Actual
Digital revolution, services for electromobility infrastructure cities through electric mobility
New mobility, electrification and
Urbanization digitalization
Empowered Customer Ability to meet customer needs Increasing the quality of services GRI 417: Marketing and Actual
customer centricity – Quality and timeliness of the provided to customers (e.g. labelling
commercial offering promotion of accessible products
DMA (former EU23):
and services, promotion of “slow
Access to energy
shopping” and inclusive offers, etc.).
Disclosure of EU DMA
information (former
EU24)
New economy, Innovation, Innovation and sustainability Supporting adequate dissemination - Actual
Digital revolution, circular economy ecosystem – Promotion of of innovation and the digitalization
Resources and digital partnerships, Development of the process to find the best solutions
preservation transformation Innovation Hub&Lab network, Support on a global scale and to accelerate
and relationships with startups, the development of new business
Intellectual property, Dissemination models (e.g. promoting partnerships,
of the culture of innovation and development of innovation hubs and
sustainability, Crowdsourcing laboratory networks, etc.)
New economy, New Economic and Long-term value creation strategy – Increase in investments/financial GRI 201: Economic Actual
governance models financial value Business Ownership model, Business resources to support the energy performance
creation Stewardship model transition and low-carbon
GRI 2-2-6: Activities,
technologies
value chain and other
business relationships
Priority for stakeholders and the Group Impact relevant on human rights
(1) “-” is report ed where the material topic is not currently covered by a specifi c GRI (2) Type: actual/potential
(3) Duration: Short term (up to 1 year) Medium term (2 to 5 years) Long term (>5 years)
Impact management Rele- Stakeholders involved Stage in Ref. in Sustain-
vant value chain ability Plan and
SDG 2022 Sustainability
Report chapter
Enel rejects corruption in all its direct and indirect forms, given that it is acknowledged as one of the 16 17 Enel people Sound
factors that undermines institutions and democracy, ethical values and justice, well-being and the Suppliers and governance
development of societies. This commitment is refl ected in the Policy on Human Rights and through the contractors
anti-corruption program known as the “Zero Tolerance of Corruption Plan”, one of the pillars on which
our Anti-Corruption Management System is structured. In this context, Enel has adopted as part of its
corporate governance specifi c compliance programs, i.e.: the Code of Ethics, the Zero Tolerance of
Corruption Plan (“ZTC Plan”), the Policy on Human Rights, the Policy on international sanctions, the Enel
Global Compliance Program (“EGCP”), the Model pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 231/01 and other
national compliance programs adopted by Group companies in accordance with their national legislation.
Furt hermore, to furt her pursue its commitment to fi ghting corruption, Enel voluntarily decided to cert ify
its Anti-Bribery Management System (SGPC) in compliance with the requirements of international
standard ISO 37001:2016 (international cert ifi cation of anti-bribery management systems).
External staff , working for Enel Group company suppliers, undert ake to comply with the ethical clauses set
out in their respective contracts, which incorporate references to Enel’s commitment in terms of business
integrity in the pursuit of its activities.
The ongoing monitoring of legislative and regulatory developments at the local, national and international
levels is guaranteed by the operations of specifi c company Functions with competence in relation to these
matt ers. Continuous training takes place by means of various dissemination and communication initiatives,
as well as awareness campaigns regarding the principles of integrity and ethics in business conduct.
The Group's approach is aimed at creating shared value with the communities with which it operates 3 8 Businesses and trade Engaging
and collaborates. This approach, integrated into the business, is based on listening to the local needs of associations communities
9
stakeholders. Civil society and local
The Group aims at the economic and social development of the context in which it operates through and global communities
numerous projects aimed at sustainability, involving an increasing number of benefi ciaries. Suppliers and
contractors
Enel people
Institutions
Customers
Enel contributes to the creation of a resilient and sustainable supply chain, by promoting co-innovation 12 Suppliers and Sustainable
projects with a view to decarbonization and circular economy. contractors supply chain
As part of the tendering process, increasingly challenging emissions targets are set, which also take into Managing human
account the possible contributions of innovation. To this end, Enel has adopted a process of defi ning rights
mandatory requirements and rewarding factors (sustainability K) relating to ESG and circular economy.
Data – requested during the tendering stage – enables us to measure emissions for the entire supply
chain, and is the fi rst step in the decarbonization pathway.
Enel works together with suppliers to defi ne criteria, technical requirements and solutions aimed at
furt her strengthening circularity and sustainability in the early stages of the value chain.
E dn ige itl ac lo izn as ti id oe nr as
s
t h ae
n
e al ce cc et lr eifi
r
ac ta oti ro fn
o
ro tf
h
t era dn es vp eo lort
p
a ms eth ne
t
ok fe y
in
t co
r
ed ae sc ina grb lyo in ni nz oin vg
a
tc ivo en
,
s flu em xip bt leio an n, du s inin tg
e grated
9 11 B asu ss oin ce ias ts ie os
n
sand trade C ell ee ca tn
r ifi cation
services. In this context, electric mobility plays a fundamental, role demonstrated by the continuous Civil society and
spread of new services and products, such as charging points for electric vehicles, which are increasingly local and global
common throughout the country. communities
Suppliers and contractors
Enel people
Institutions
Customers
Enel promotes the dissemination of innovative and inclusive products and services, such as automatic 9 11 Businesses and trade Clean
payments, e-billing, the “slow shopping” method (aimed at creating meaningful experiences for associations electrifi cation
customers with disabilities through specifi c dedicated channels, using accessible apps and digital Customers
services). Civil society and
Enel monitors the rate of customer satisfaction in every country in which it operates through specifi c local and global
surveys and analysis of customer feedback. communities
In conjunction with the various Functions and Business Lines, the Holding Innovability Function® 9 11 Businesses and trade Innovation
(Innovation and Sustainability), report ing directly to the CEO, manages innovation activities in conformity associations
12 13
with regulations currently in force and with the Group's compliance programs. Civil society and local
With the aim of support ing the Group’s Strategic Plan and responding to the innovation needs of the 17 and global communities
business, an Innovation Plan is defi ned annually. Media
Start ing from the Innovation Plan, shared with the Top Management and submitt ed for the approval of Suppliers and
the Holding Innovation Committ ee (chaired by the Director of Innovability®), innovative solutions are contractors
sought to be tested and scaled globally through innovation tools (e.g. intelligence, crowdsourcing) and Enel people
collaboration with start ups, SMEs, large companies and the academic world.
Capital employment is centered on decarbonization through the development of assets for generation 8 Businesses and trade Zero emissions
from renewable sources, on enabling infrastructure linked to the development of networks, and on the associations ambition
implementation of platform models, fully exploiting technological and digital evolution which will favor Civil society and local Clean
consumption electrifi cation and the development of new services for end customers. and global communities electrifi cation
Suppliers and
contractors
Enel people
Financial community
Institutions
Customers
Table of the most signifi cant impacts
ESG megatrend Material topic Material topic Description of the impact Relevant GRI(1) Type(2) –
(I level) (II, III level) Duration(3)
Climate change, Decarboni- Climate change – Reduction in CO Failure to contribute to the fi ght GRI 305: Emissions Potential
2
Resources zation of the emissions against climate change due to the
preservation energy mix increase in CO emissions deriving
2
from the operation of thermoelectric
plants
Urbanization, Infrastructure Operational grid management – Grid Reduction of electricity transmission DMA (former EU23): Potential
Digital revolution and networks maintenance caused by overload issues in the Access to energy
national grid
System effi ciency (EU12)
Resources Conservation Water management - Wastewater Negative environmental damage (e.g. GRI 303: Water and Potential
preservation of ecosystems treatment, recycling and reuse depletion of natural water resources effl uents
and with consequent decay of related
GRI 306: Efl luents and
environmental ecosystem services, pollution and/or waste
management deterioration of water and soil) due
to inadequate water management
(e.g. excessive water withdrawals in
relation to the resource regeneration
capacity and ecosystem needs,
part icularly in water-stressed areas,
uncontrolled discharges or leaks
of wastewater, effl uents with an
excessive heat load or pollutants)
Well-being Occupational Health and safety of workers of Increase in the number of workplace GRI 403: Occupational Potential
health and contractors operating on Enel sites injuries suff ered by workers and health and safety
safety Worker safety – contractors, due to lack of safety
GRI 410: Safety
Promotion of safety culture management and monitoring practices
among workers, Management and
monitoring of worker safety
Inclusion and People People development – Recruitment Decrease in the ability to att ract GRI 401: Employment Potential
gender equality, management, and remuneration policies talent and increased worker turnover
Future work development due to inadequate hiring and
and motivation compensation policies and benefi t
programs
STCAPMI
EVITAGEN
Table of the most significant impacts
ESG megatrend Material topic Material topic Description of the impact Relevant GRI(1) Type(2) –
(I level) (II, III level) Duration(3)
Climate change, Decarboni- Climate change – Reduction in CO Failure to contribute to the fight GRI 305: Emissions Potential
2
Resources zation of the emissions against climate change due to the
preservation energy mix increase in CO emissions deriving
2
from the operation of thermoelectric
plants
Urbanization, Infrastructure Operational grid management – Grid Reduction of electricity transmission DMA (former EU23): Potential
Digital revolution and networks maintenance caused by overload issues in the Access to energy
national grid
System efficiency (EU12)
Resources Conservation Water management - Wastewater Negative environmental damage (e.g. GRI 303: Water and Potential
preservation of ecosystems treatment, recycling and reuse depletion of natural water resources effl uents
and with consequent decay of related
GRI 306: Eflluents and
environmental ecosystem services, pollution and/or waste
management deterioration of water and soil) due
to inadequate water management
(e.g. excessive water withdrawals in
relation to the resource regeneration
capacity and ecosystem needs,
particularly in water-stressed areas,
uncontrolled discharges or leaks
of wastewater, effluents with an
excessive heat load or pollutants)
Well-being Occupational Health and safety of workers of Increase in the number of workplace GRI 403: Occupational Potential
health and contractors operating on Enel sites injuries suffered by workers and health and safety
safety Worker safety – contractors, due to lack of safety
GRI 410: Safety
Promotion of safety culture management and monitoring practices
among workers, Management and
monitoring of worker safety
Inclusion and People People development – Recruitment Decrease in the ability to attract GRI 401: Employment Potential
gender equality, management, and remuneration policies talent and increased worker turnover
Future work development due to inadequate hiring and
and motivation compensation policies and benefit
programs
Priority for stakeholders and the Group Impact relevant on human rights
(1) “-” is report ed where the material topic is not currently covered by a specifi c GRI (2) Type: actual/potential
(3) Duration: Short term (up to 1 year) Medium term (2 to 5 years) Long term (>5 years)
Impact management Rele- Stakeholders involved Stage in Ref. in Sustain-
vant value chain ability Plan and
SDG 2022 Sustainability
Report chapter
The roadmap of the decarbonization process envisages the gradual phase-out of coal-fi red capacity by 13 Civil society and Zero emissions
2027, in addition to the progressive expansion of generation from renewable sources. local and global ambition
communities
Businesses and trade
associations
Financial community
Media
Enel people
Customers
Institutions
Suppliers and
contractors
Enel, as DSO (Distribution System Operator), follows the network code of the TSO (Transmission System 7 Customers Clean
Operator that governs the countries in which it operates). Civil society and electrifi cation
Enel constantly invests in network development, renewal and maintenance on the infrastructure existing local and global
in all Countries, with the primary aim of improving the quality of the service delivered and reducing the communities
number and duration of outages. Businesses and trade
associations
Financial community
Media
Enel people
Institutions
Suppliers and
contractors
The adoption of ISO 14001-cert ifi ed Environmental Management Systems cert ifi ed within the Group 6 14 Businesses and trade Nature
ensures the presence of structured policies and procedures to identify and manage the environmental associations Conservation of
risks and opport unities associated with all corporate activities. Civil society and natural capital
Enel is constantly monitoring all power generation sites located in zones at risk of water scarcity (water local and global
stressed areas) in order to ensure effi cient use of water resources. Mapping of production sites falling communities
within water stressed areas is done in line with the criteria of GRI 303 (2018) with reference to the Institutions
conditions of “(baseline) Water Stress”. With the aim of identifying technological solutions to reduce
consumption, part icular att ention is paid to assets present in areas with a high level of water stress. The
risk of water scarcity is also mitigated by the growth of generation from renewable sources, which do not
essentially depend on the availability of water for their operation. In this context, the Group acknowledges
that protecting the environment and natural resources, combating climate change and contributing to
sustainable economic development are strategic factors in the planning, operation and development
of our activities. This commitment is refl ected in a dedicated principle in the Policy on Human Rights,
including in line with the environmental policy which also includes respect for biodiversity.
Enel is committ ed to developing and disseminating a robust culture of health, safety and well-being 8 Enel people Occupational
throughout the entire corporate perimeter, in order to guarantee a workplace that is free of risks to Suppliers and health and safety
health and safety, and to promote behaviors oriented towards “work-life integration”. It is therefore actively contractors
committ ed to promoting personal and organizational well-being as enabling factors for the engagement
and innovative potential of the people who work with us, including suppliers and contractors. Each person
must feel that they are responsible for their own health and safety as well as for the health and safety of
others. This is also expressed in integrating health and safety into training processes and activities. Enel’s
commitment is demonstrated in the Group’s Policy on Human Rights. The Group has developed a Health
and Safety Management System in compliance with international standard BS OHSAS 45001, based
on identifying hazards, qualitative and quantitative risk assessment, and on planning and implementing
preventive and protective measures.
This system also considers the rigorous selection and management of contractors and suppliers,
promoting their involvement in continuous safety perf ormance improvement programs. In part icular,
these processes make it possible to direct, integrate and monitor, both at Group and Country level,
all the prevention, protection and intervention actions aimed at protecting the health of workers and
contractors, also in relation to exogenous health risk factors that may not be strictly related to work
activities.
In line with our Open Power approach, we work every day to create an open, inclusive and dynamic 3 8 Enel people Empowering Enel
working environment that seeks to incorporate diversity, att ract new talent and empower our people. people
The new digital tools to support the selection process favor full part icipation and inclusion of all the
candidates involved, using gamifi cation experiences at a global level and a video interview support ed by
art ifi cial intelligence, aimed at an in-depth exploration of the aptitudes of the young talent involved.
Over the last year, several initiatives, most of which have been digital, have been developed in relation
to talent att raction and employer branding, aimed at building a corporate identity that is att ractive to
potential candidates. New regulations have also been released at a global level, which also include the
e-profi le tool as an opport unity to enhance people's hard and soft skills, their aspirations and their
motivations for change.
ESG megatrend Material topic Material topic Description of the impact Relevant GRI(1) Type(2) –
(I level) (II, III level) Duration(3)
New governance Sound Structure of the Board of Directors Worsening of external stakeholders’ GRI 406: Non- Potential
models governance and and Top Management – Balanced perception of the Group's inclusion discrimination
fair corporate structure and diversity of the Board practices due to the lack of
GRI 2-2-9: Governance
conduct of Directors diversity in the governing bodies of structure and
subsidiaries
composition; 2-10:
Nomination and
selection of the highest
governance body
Increase in Engaging local Consultation with the local Possible confl icts or opposition GRI 413: Local Potential
inequalities and global community in the development of from local communities due to the communities
communities new projects – Dialog, sharing and lack of sharing of the environmental
engagement on shared goals and socio-economic benefi ts of the
project
Increase in Sustainable Respect for human rights in the Procurement of goods and services GRI 414: Supplier Social Potential
inequalities supply chain supply chain – Integration of human produced by activities related to Assessment
rights and labor rights criteria potential human rights violations (e.g.
and perf ormance into fuel supply exploitation of unskilled and low-
management paid workers)
New economy, Products and New technologies and solutions Reduction of positive environmental - Potential
Digital revolution, services for for Homes, Condominiums, Cities, impacts due to possible delays in the
New mobility, electrifi cation Industry and fi nancial activities installation, maintenance and repair
Urbanization and of renewable energy technologies
digitalization (energy-effi cient products and
services)
Empowered Customer Ability to meet customer needs – Increase in the number of vulnerable GRI 417: Marketing and Potential
customer centricity Optimizing products and services for customers and energy povert y labelling
the most vulnerable customers due to an increase in the price of
DMA (former EU23):
electricity
Access to energy
DMA EU (former
EU24): Disclosure of
information (standardize
this wording whenever
it can be found in the
tables for both impacts
and GRI issues)
New economy, Innovation, Circular economy – Use of Reduced availability of global/ GRI 301: Materials Potential
Digital revolution, circular sustainable inputs, Dissemination of local raw materials due to failure
GRI 306: Waste
Resources economy circular economy culture to implement circular economy
preservation and digital practices
transformation
New economy, New Economic and Long-term value creation strategy – Reduction of investments in GRI 201: Economic Potential
governance models fi nancial value Business Ownership model, Business maintenance of existing assets, in perf ormance
creation Stewardship model favor of those aimed at building new
GRI 2-2-6: Activities,
capacity
value chain and other
business relationships
STCAPMI
EVITAGEN
ESG megatrend Material topic Material topic Description of the impact Relevant GRI(1) Type(2) –
(I level) (II, III level) Duration(3)
New governance Sound Structure of the Board of Directors Worsening of external stakeholders’ GRI 406: Non- Potential
models governance and and Top Management – Balanced perception of the Group's inclusion discrimination
fair corporate structure and diversity of the Board practices due to the lack of
GRI 2-2-9: Governance
conduct of Directors diversity in the governing bodies of structure and
subsidiaries
composition; 2-10:
Nomination and
selection of the highest
governance body
Increase in Engaging local Consultation with the local Possible confl icts or opposition GRI 413: Local Potential
inequalities and global community in the development of from local communities due to the communities
communities new projects – Dialog, sharing and lack of sharing of the environmental
engagement on shared goals and socio-economic benefi ts of the
project
Increase in Sustainable Respect for human rights in the Procurement of goods and services GRI 414: Supplier Social Potential
inequalities supply chain supply chain – Integration of human produced by activities related to Assessment
rights and labor rights criteria potential human rights violations (e.g.
and perf ormance into fuel supply exploitation of unskilled and low-
management paid workers)
New economy, Products and New technologies and solutions Reduction of positive environmental - Potential
Digital revolution, services for for Homes, Condominiums, Cities, impacts due to possible delays in the
New mobility, electrifi cation Industry and fi nancial activities installation, maintenance and repair
Urbanization and of renewable energy technologies
digitalization (energy-effi cient products and
services)
Empowered Customer Ability to meet customer needs – Increase in the number of vulnerable GRI 417: Marketing and Potential
customer centricity Optimizing products and services for customers and energy povert y labelling
the most vulnerable customers due to an increase in the price of
DMA (former EU23):
electricity
Access to energy
DMA EU (former
EU24): Disclosure of
information (standardize
this wording whenever
it can be found in the
tables for both impacts
and GRI issues)
New economy, Innovation, Circular economy – Use of Reduced availability of global/ GRI 301: Materials Potential
Digital revolution, circular sustainable inputs, Dissemination of local raw materials due to failure
GRI 306: Waste
Resources economy circular economy culture to implement circular economy
preservation and digital practices
transformation
New economy, New Economic and Long-term value creation strategy – Reduction of investments in GRI 201: Economic Potential
governance models fi nancial value Business Ownership model, Business maintenance of existing assets, in perf ormance
creation Stewardship model favor of those aimed at building new
GRI 2-2-6: Activities,
capacity
value chain and other
business relationships
Priority for stakeholders and the Group Impact relevant on human rights
(1) “-” is report ed where the material topic is not currently covered by a specifi c GRI (2) Type: actual/potential
(3) Duration: Short term (up to 1 year) Medium term (2 to 5 years) Long term (>5 years)
Impact management Rele- Stakeholders involved Stage in Ref. in Sustain-
vant value chain ability Plan and
SDG 2022 Sustainability
Report chapter
Within the best practices adopted by Enel with regard to subsidiaries, it is envisaged that, without 16 17 Civil society and Sound
prejudice to applicable legislation, the selection of members of the Board of Directors of these companies local and global governance
must aim to integrate diff erent professional and managerial experiences and skills (including specifi c skills communities
in the business sector concerned, as well as in economic, fi nancial and legal matt ers), and combine them Enel people
where possible, with the integration of diversity of gender, age and role. Businesses and trade
associations
Suppliers and
contractors
Via the Group approach aimed at Creating Shared Value (CSV), since the beginning of the project Enel has 8 Civil society and Engaging
been involving local communities, making them aware and informing them of topics connected to climate local and global communities
change, and explaining the benefi ts and eff ects of the energy transition, not only for the environment but communities
also for the socio-economic development of the areas where Enel operates. Businesses and trade
associations
Suppliers and
contractors
The protection of human rights aspects within Enel’s supply chain is guaranteed by the supplier 12 Civil society and Sustainable
qualifi cation system as well as by the entire procurement process. local and global supply chain
The qualifi cation system requires suppliers to commit to adopting best practices in terms of human rights communities Human rights
and working conditions, impact on communities, dissemination of principles regarding respect for human Suppliers and management
rights, throughout their value chain. contractors
The General Terms and Conditions of Contract also require compliance with relevant current legislation Businesses and trade
and regulations, and for suppliers to sign up to the principles to which Enel has committ ed in the Policy on associations
Human Rights, Code of Ethics, Zero Tolerance of Corruption Plan, and global compliance programs.
The Enel X Global Retail Business Line was set up in order to respond to the new scenarios opened up by 7 9 Civil society and Clean
the electrifi cation process and to design off ers that are increasingly adapted to customer needs, and is local and global electrifi cation
11 13
therefore aimed at providing a fast and timely service to customers. Enel mitigates the risk related to the communities
lack and/or delays in the supply of raw materials through the diversifi cation of its suppliers. Any delays Customers
in the supply chain due to the scarcity of raw materials are appropriately mitigated by Enel through the Enel people
diversifi cation of suppliers. Suppliers and
contractors
The Group has committ ed to a “just energy transition for all”, including by off ering innovative and inclusive 11 12 Businesses and trade Clean
services for customers of all ages, weak, destitute or marginalized customers, vulnerable families in line associations electrifi cation
with the provisions of the Policy on Human Rights. In all the countries in which the Group operates, we Civil society and
also provide forms of support that make it easier for cert ain sections of the population to pay electricity local and global
and gas bills, thus allowing equal access to energy. One example is the action taken in Italy and Spain communities
through the so-called "social bonus", but also in Romania, Brazil, Peru and Colombia where initiatives have Customers
been promoted dedicated to providing adequate support to vulnerable sections of society and who in
part icular are aff ected by the increase in energy costs.
We apply the circular economy throughout the goods’ lifecycle: from the design stages of the supply 12 Businesses and trade Circular economy
chain to their use and ultimately reuse in a new cycle at the end of their service life. associations
Enel pursues the objective of separating its business from the consumption of resources; to monitor this Civil society and
transition to circularity, we have developed an “Economic CirculAbility” KPI, which takes the Group’s overall local and global
EBITDA (in euros) and compares it with the amount of resources consumed, both fuel and raw materials, communities
throughout the value chain by the diff erent business activities (expressed in tons). Enel has committ ed Customers
to doubling its perf ormance in relation to this KPI by 2030 compared to 2020, i.e. to halve the amount of Suppliers and
resources consumed compared to the EBITDA generated. contractors
Enel guarantees investments aimed at support ing the energy transition while ensuring the continuous 8 Businesses and trade Zero emissions
maintenance of existing plants to make them resilient and enable them to meet the challenges of climate associations ambition
change. Civil society and
local and global
communities
Enel people
Customers
Suppliers and
contractors
Financial community
The impacts and associated material topics that have been On the basis of the financial materiality assessment, for re-
determined through this process are used to identify the porting purposes the most significant potential(4) positive
financial risks and opportunities related to the organiza- and negative impacts were selected according to their
tion’s impacts and for financial assessment purposes. highest degree of significance for each topic of the mate-
riality analysis. The table below shows:
As regards financial materiality, in 2022 the Group con-
•
ducted an assessment, analyzing and identifying the ma- the most significant impacts – associated with ESG
terial topics from a financial perspective, namely those megatrends, the material topic (1st, 2nd, 3rd Level) and
that affect or could affect the Company’s financial condi- related GRI – both positive and negative in suffered di-
tion or operating results, and are therefore most relevant rectly and indirectly by the Company from the external
to investors. context;
•
The financial materiality analysis was performed by each the time horizon for their occurrence (short-, medium-
Local Sustainability and Holding unit, in order to assess or long-term);
•
the significance of impacts arising from the external con- impact management: the Company strategies and per-
text. This entailed the involvement of relevant stakeholders formance, in line with the management of the main types
and experts within the organization who have a close rela- of risk faced by the Enel Group;
•
tionship with the main stakeholders, and thus a compre- alignment with the SASB Standard for the prevailing
hensive view on sustainability aspects related to risks and Electric Utilities sector and the Gas Utilities, Solar Tech-
opportunities that influence or may influence substantial- nology and Wind Technology sectors, and the material
ly the Company’s cash flows, development, performance, topic (1st Level) related to the impact;
•
positioning, cost of capital or access to borrowings in the additional information: whether the reported impact is
short, medium or long term. or could be a human rights concern; the reference SDGs;
In conducting the financial materiality analysis, Enel also the phase of the value chain affected by the impact; the
considered the relevance of ESG topics according to the stakeholders that can or could be positively or negative-
SASB Standard for the prevailing Electric Utilities sector ly affected by the impact; whether the topic related to
and the Gas Utilities, Solar Technology and Wind Technol- the reported impact is a priority for the stakeholders in-
ogy sectors. volved in the materiality analysis process; reference to
the Sustainability Plan and to the chapter of the Report
that describes in detail the management methods and
results related to the impact.
(4) For financial reporting input purposes, the financial materiality analysis looked at the actual and potential impacts suffered by the Company from a financial
point of view. However, in order to select the most significant impacts for reporting, it focused on potential ones with a view to assessing the potential eco-
nomic effects on the Company.
Table of the most signifi cant impacts
ESG megatrend Material topic Material topic Description of the impact Relevant GRI(2) Duration(3)
(I level) (II, III level)
Climate change, Decarbonization Climate change – Adaptation to Promoting the establishment and GRI 201: Economic
Resources of the energy extreme weather events timely implementation of adaptation perf ormance
preservation mix plans to improve the resilience
SASB(1) of plants to natural disasters and GRI 305: Emissions
respond promptly to regulatory GRI 304: Biodiversity
changes, helping to reduce potential
GRI 303: Water and
costs and losses due to damage
effl uents
and/or operational failures
DMA (former EU23):
Access to energy
System effi ciency (EU12)
Urbanization, Infrastructure Improvement and development of Increased investment in System effi ciency (EU12)
Digital revolution and networks networks – Improvement of quality in infrastructure resilience to reduce
energy distribution climate risk
SASB(1)
Resources SASB(1) Preservation of Environmental governance – Anticipating changes in national GRI 2-27: Compliance
preservation ecosystems and Environmental policies and international legislation and with laws and
environmental standards through the adoption of regulations
management an overcompliant strategy aimed at
a role as a global environmental best
perf ormer with respect to the most
stringent regulatory compliance
requirements
Well-being Occupational Worker safety – Promotion of a Decrease in the number of GRI 403: Occupational
health and worker safety culture workplace injuries to workers and health and safety
safety Safety of contractors working at Enel contractors, thanks to an adequate
SASB(1) sites – Promotion of a safety culture social and cultural context on health GRI 410: Safety
practices
among contractors working at Enel and safety topics
sites
New governance Sound Fairness and transparency in Positive fi nancial perf ormance as a GRI 2-2-23: Policy
models governance and communication – Fairness and result of the implementation of good commitments; 2-24:
fair corporate transparency of ESG information corporate governance practices, Embedding policy
conduct relevant for key ESG indices and commitments; 2-25:
investors Processes to remediate
negative impacts
GRI 206: Anti-
competitive behavior
GRI 415: Public policy
Increase in SASB(1) Sustainable Responsible management of the Improving brand reputation GRI 204: Procurement
inequalities supply chain procurement of goods, services and by working with sustainability- practices
work – Integration of environmental, compliant suppliers
GRI 308: Supplier
safety and sustainability criteria
Environmental
and perf ormance in purchasing
Assessment
management
New economy, Products and New technologies and solutions Changes in consumer behaviour -
Digital revolution, services for for Homes, Condominiums, Cities, towards more sustainable, electrifi ed
New mobility, electrifi cation Industry and fi nancial activities and digitalized solutions
Urbanization and digitalization
New economy, SASB(1) Innovation, Circular economy – Use of Increased reuse of materials thanks GRI 301: Materials
Resources circular economy sustainable inputs, Dissemination of to the adoption of circular economy
GRI 306: Waste
preservation and digital circular economy culture practices
transformation
New economy, New Economic and Investment att raction Creation of new markets and GRI 201: Economic
governance models fi nancial value sustainable fi nance products perf ormance
creation consistent with the investment
framework, activating greater public
resources for decarbonization and
access to fi nancial resources in line
with energy transition objectives
and the related impact on costs and
on fi nance charges; introduction of
subsidised support tools (funds and
calls) for the transition.
STCAPMI
EVITISOP
Table of the most significant impacts
ESG megatrend Material topic Material topic Description of the impact Relevant GRI(2) Duration(3)
(I level) (II, III level)
Climate change, Decarbonization Climate change – Adaptation to Promoting the establishment and GRI 201: Economic
Resources of the energy extreme weather events timely implementation of adaptation performance
preservation mix plans to improve the resilience
SASB(1) of plants to natural disasters and GRI 305: Emissions
respond promptly to regulatory GRI 304: Biodiversity
changes, helping to reduce potential
GRI 303: Water and
costs and losses due to damage
effl uents
and/or operational failures
DMA (former EU23):
Access to energy
System efficiency (EU12)
Urbanization, Infrastructure Improvement and development of Increased investment in System efficiency (EU12)
Digital revolution and networks networks – Improvement of quality in infrastructure resilience to reduce
energy distribution climate risk
SASB(1)
Resources SASB(1) Preservation of Environmental governance – Anticipating changes in national GRI 2-27: Compliance
preservation ecosystems and Environmental policies and international legislation and with laws and
environmental standards through the adoption of regulations
management an overcompliant strategy aimed at
a role as a global environmental best
performer with respect to the most
stringent regulatory compliance
requirements
Well-being Occupational Worker safety – Promotion of a Decrease in the number of GRI 403: Occupational
health and worker safety culture workplace injuries to workers and health and safety
safety Safety of contractors working at Enel contractors, thanks to an adequate
SASB(1) sites – Promotion of a safety culture social and cultural context on health GRI 410: Safety
practices
among contractors working at Enel and safety topics
sites
New governance Sound Fairness and transparency in Positive financial performance as a GRI 2-2-23: Policy
models governance and communication – Fairness and result of the implementation of good commitments; 2-24:
fair corporate transparency of ESG information corporate governance practices, Embedding policy
conduct relevant for key ESG indices and commitments; 2-25:
investors Processes to remediate
negative impacts
GRI 206: Anti-
competitive behavior
GRI 415: Public policy
Increase in SASB(1) Sustainable Responsible management of the Improving brand reputation GRI 204: Procurement
inequalities supply chain procurement of goods, services and by working with sustainability- practices
work – Integration of environmental, compliant suppliers
GRI 308: Supplier
safety and sustainability criteria
Environmental
and performance in purchasing
Assessment
management
New economy, Products and New technologies and solutions Changes in consumer behaviour -
Digital revolution, services for for Homes, Condominiums, Cities, towards more sustainable, electrified
New mobility, electrification Industry and financial activities and digitalized solutions
Urbanization and digitalization
New economy, SASB(1) Innovation, Circular economy – Use of Increased reuse of materials thanks GRI 301: Materials
Resources circular economy sustainable inputs, Dissemination of to the adoption of circular economy
GRI 306: Waste
preservation and digital circular economy culture practices
transformation
New economy, New Economic and Investment attraction Creation of new markets and GRI 201: Economic
governance models financial value sustainable finance products performance
creation consistent with the investment
framework, activating greater public
resources for decarbonization and
access to financial resources in line
with energy transition objectives
and the related impact on costs and
on finance charges; introduction of
subsidised support tools (funds and
calls) for the transition.
Priority for stakeholders and the Group Impact relevant on human rights ((11))SSAASSBB M (M (SSaa uutt ssee ttaarrii iiaa nnll
aa
tt bboo iipp lliittiicc
yy
ff AArr ccoo ccmm
oo
uuaa
nn
fifi
tt
nn iinnaa ggnn cc SSii ttaa aall nnpp ddoo aaiinn rrddtt ssoo BBff oovvii aaee rrww
dd
))ffoorr SSAASSBB
(2) “-” is report ed where the material topic is not currently covered by a specifi c GRI
(3) Duration: Short term (up to 1 year) Medium term (2 to 5 years) Long term (>5 years)
Impact management Rele- Stakeholders involved Stage in Ref. in Sustain-
vant value chain ability Plan and
SDG 2022 Sustainability
Report chapter
The Group adopts solutions for adaptation to weather and climate events in order to manage eff ectively 13 Businesses and trade Zero emissions
chronic and acute phenomena of interest for each activity and Business Line. Adaptation solutions may associations ambition
concern both actions implemented in short -term and long-term decision making, such as the planning Civil society and
of investments in response to climate phenomena. Adaptation activities also include procedures, policies local and global
and best practices. For new investments, action can also be taken early in the design and construction communities
phase to reduce the impact of climate risks by through risk and vulnerability assessments at the design Customers
stage, and to take any chronic eff ects into account (e.g. the inclusion of climate scenarios in long-term Financial community
renewable resource estimates). Enel people
Institutions
Media
Suppliers and
contractors
In the Enel Grids Business Line, the Enel Group has adopted an approach known as “4R” to cope with 9 13 Businesses and trade Clean
extreme weather events (1. Risk Prevention; 2. Readiness; 3. Response; 4. Recovery). In a suitable policy, it associations electrifi cation
defi nes the measures required, both when preparing for an emergency on the grid, and to quickly restore Civil society and
service ex post, i.e. once the climatic events have caused damage to the assets and/or disconnections. local and global
communities
Customers
E nn ewel np ala ty ios
n
a an
l
aa nc dti v ine
t
a en rnd
a
l te ioad ne alr s sh taip
n
dro al re
d
i sn
r
i en gte ar rn da int gio en nal
v
m iroe ne mtin eg nts
a
a
l
n tod
p
i in
c
sth ine od ris dc eu rs ts oio an
li
ga nn d
a
na dp p al nic tia ct ii po an
t
eo f 6 12 B asu ss oin ce ias ts ie os
n
sand trade N Ca ot nu sr ee
rvation of
their organizational implications.
14 15
Civil society and natural capital
A structured control plan combined with actions and improvement objectives inspired by the best 16 local and global
environmental and social practices, with requirements higher than those linked to simple environmental communities
regulatory compliance, mitigates the risk of impacts on the environment and on human rights, of legal Institutions
disputes and misalignment with the benchmark international standards that represent best practices.
Enel considers the health, safety and psychological and physical well-being of individuals to be the 8 Enel people Occupational
most precious asset to be protected at all times of life, at work, at home and during leisure time. In this Suppliers and health and safety
context, the Group promotes a context based on principles of health and safety, through global and local contractors
awareness raising campaigns to promote healthy lifestyles, screening programs aimed at preventing the
onset of illnesses, vaccination campaigns and availability of medical services. This structured approach
is described in the new version of the “Health and Well-being” Policy, and defi nes in three main steps
– health surveillance, prevention and well-being – the path for promoting good health and well-being.
Enel’s commitment is also demonstrated in the Group’s Policy on Human Rights, the “Declaration of
Commitment to Health and Safety” and the “Stop Work Policy”.
Enel has adopted as part of its corporate governance specifi c compliance programs, i.e.: the Code of 16 Financial community Sound
Ethics, the Zero Tolerance of Corruption Plan (“ZTC Plan”), the Policy on Human Rights, the Policy on Businesses and trade governance
international sanctions, the Enel Global Compliance Program (“EGCP”), the Model pursuant to Italian associations Our commitment
Legislative Decree 231/01 and other national compliance programs adopted by Group companies in to continuous
accordance with their national legislation. Furt hermore, to furt her pursue its commitment to fi ghting improvement
corruption, Enel voluntarily decided to cert ify its Anti-Bribery Management System (SGPC) in compliance
with the requirements of international standard ISO 37001:2016 (international cert ifi cation of anti-bribery
management systems).
Enel promotes part nerships with companies that maximize their positive impacts on the environment and 12 Financial community Sustainable
has created part nerships to increase the sensitivity and overall level of sustainability in the value chain. Suppliers and supply chain
It has also organized numerous meetings with contractors on the topics of decarbonization, circularity, contractors
human rights and supply chain mapping, with the aim of sharing common practices and approaches and
of pushing the supply chain towards the sustainability standards required by the international community.
The energy sector is changing, and at the same time the way we use energy is evolving. Enel is therefore 11 Customers Clean
committ ed to creating and off ering individuals, companies and government bodies products and services electrifi cation
to make everyday life, from mobility to home automation, easier and more effi cient. Digitalization
We apply the circular economy throughout the goods’ lifecycle: from the design or purchase stages 12 Businesses and trade Circular economy
through to their use and reuse in a new cycle at the end of their service life. In order to minimize the use associations
of scarce natural resources, Enel defi nes and implements circular economy practices along all business Civil society and
lines, involving both its supply chain and end customers. local and global
communities
Suppliers and
contractors
At Enel, sustainable fi nance plays a crucial role in support ing the growth of the Group which, through 8 Businesses and trade Zero emissions
the recognition of the value of sustainability, contributes to a gradual reduction in the cost of debt. associations ambition
Sustainable fi nance means synergy between private and public fi nance. Private fi nance conveys private Financial community Our commitment
capital towards sustainable investments, i.e. for the benefi t of companies whose strategic action is Institutions to continuous
intended to achieve cert ain sustainability objectives, refl ecting the economic and fi nancial value of improvement
sustainability in a lower cost of debt. Public fi nance, on the other hand, stimulates the creation of
sustainable investments, through grants and loans at subsidized interest rates.
Table of the most signifi cant impacts
ESG megatrend Material topic Material topic Description of the impact Relevant GRI Duration(3)
(I level) (II, III level)
Climate change Decarbonization Climate change – Adaptation to Increase in extreme weather events GRI 201: Economic
of the energy extreme weather events(2) (e.g. cyclones, droughts, fl oods, perf ormance
mix(2) storms, heat waves and fi res) due to
SASB(1) climate change, resulting in damage GRI 305: Emissions
or reduced effi ciency of power GRI 304: Biodiversity
generation and distribution facilities
GRI 303: Water and
and support ing infrastructure,
effl uents
causing capacity to be downgraded,
operations temporarily stopped or DMA (former EU23):
shut down completely. Access to energy
System effi ciency (EU12)
Urbanization, Infrastructure Operational grid management – Potential damage to the network DMA (former EU23):
Digital revolution and networks Grid maintenance caused by third part ies causing Access to energy
malfunctions in the continuity of the
SASB(1) service provided and with possible System effi ciency (EU12)
penalties for failure to restore within
the established time
Resources SASB(1) Preservation of Environmental governance – Stricter and emerging legislation GRI 2-27: Compliance
preservation ecosystems and Environmental policies on activities, products and/or with laws and
environmental services aimed at reducing the regulations
management environmental impact on nature
and local communities, resulting in
increased operating costs and fi nes,
loss of licenses and/or revenues or
blocked assets
Well-being Occupational Worker safety – Promotion of a Increase in the number of workplace GRI 403: Occupational
health and safety worker safety culture injuries to workers and contractors, health and safety
Safety of contractors working at Enel due to an inadequate social and GRI 410: Safety
SASB(1) sites – Promotion of a safety culture cultural context on health and safety practices
among contractors working at Enel topics
sites
Inclusion and People People development – Upskilling and Lack of institutional support to GRI 404: Training and
gender equality, management, Reskilling incentivize and promote new Education
Future work development skills and job opport unities in the
and motivation organization
New governance Sound Fairness in management conduct Rising demand for corporate GRI 1: Foundation
models governance and transparency and accountability
GRI 2-2-22: Statement
fair corporate from the fi nancial community,
on sustainable
conduct impacting ESG ratings and securities
development strategy;
perf ormance
2-23: Policy
commitments
GRI 2-2-23: Policy
commitments;
2-24: Embedding policy
commitments
GRI 205: Anti-
corruption
GRI 206: Anti-
competitive behavior
GRI 415: Public policy
STCAPMI
EVITAGEN
Table of the most significant impacts
ESG megatrend Material topic Material topic Description of the impact Relevant GRI(3) Duration(3)
(I level) (II, III level)
Climate change Decarbonization Climate change – Adaptation to Increase in extreme weather events GRI 201: Economic
of the energy extreme weather events(2) (e.g. cyclones, droughts, floods, performance
mix(2) storms, heat waves and fires) due to
SASB(1) climate change, resulting in damage GRI 305: Emissions
or reduced efficiency of power GRI 304: Biodiversity
generation and distribution facilities
GRI 303: Water and
and supporting infrastructure,
effl uents
causing capacity to be downgraded,
operations temporarily stopped or DMA (former EU23):
shut down completely. Access to energy
System efficiency (EU12)
Urbanization, Infrastructure Operational grid management – Potential damage to the network DMA (former EU23):
Digital revolution and networks Grid maintenance caused by third parties causing Access to energy
malfunctions in the continuity of the
SASB(1) service provided and with possible System efficiency (EU12)
penalties for failure to restore within
the established time
Resources SASB(1) Preservation of Environmental governance – Stricter and emerging legislation GRI 2-27: Compliance
preservation ecosystems and Environmental policies on activities, products and/or with laws and
environmental services aimed at reducing the regulations
management environmental impact on nature
and local communities, resulting in
increased operating costs and fines,
loss of licenses and/or revenues or
blocked assets
Well-being Occupational Worker safety – Promotion of a Increase in the number of workplace GRI 403: Occupational
health and safety worker safety culture injuries to workers and contractors, health and safety
Safety of contractors working at Enel due to an inadequate social and GRI 410: Safety
SASB(1) sites – Promotion of a safety culture cultural context on health and safety practices
among contractors working at Enel topics
sites
Inclusion and People People development – Upskilling and Lack of institutional support to GRI 404: Training and
gender equality, management, Reskilling incentivize and promote new Education
Future work development skills and job opportunities in the
and motivation organization
New governance Sound Fairness in management conduct Rising demand for corporate GRI 1: Foundation
models governance and transparency and accountability
GRI 2-2-22: Statement
fair corporate from the financial community,
on sustainable
conduct impacting ESG ratings and securities
development strategy;
performance
2-23: Policy
commitments
GRI 2-2-23: Policy
commitments;
2-24: Embedding policy
commitments
GRI 205: Anti-
corruption
GRI 206: Anti-
competitive behavior
GRI 415: Public policy
Priority for stakeholders and the Group Impact relevant on human rights ((11))SSAASSBB M (M (SSaa uutt ssee ttaarrii iiaa nnll aa tt bboo iipp lliittiicc yy ff AArr ccoo ccmm oo uuaa nn fifi tt nn iinnaa ggnn cc SSii ttaa aall nnpp ddoo aaiinn rrddtt ssoo BBff oovvii aaee rrww dd ))ffoorr SSAASSBB
(2) The climate and biodiversity crises are linked. As stated in the report by the workshop co-sponsored by IPBES-IPCC on biodiversity and climate change, “limiting global
warming to ensure a habitable climate and protecting biodiversity are mutually supporting goals, and their achievement is essential for sustainably and equitably
providing benefits to people.”
Climate change is one of the main causes of biodiversity loss, given that the destruction of ecosystems undermines nature's ability to regulate greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions and to protect itself from extreme weather conditions, thus accelerating climate change and increasing its vulnerability.
(3) “-” is report ed where the material topic is not currently covered by a specifi c GRI
(4) Duration: Short term (up to 1 year) Medium term (2 to 5 years) Long term (>5 years)
Impact management Rele- Stakeholders involved Stage in Ref. in Sustain-
vant value chain ability Plan and
SDG 2022 Sustainability
Report chapter
Enel makes use of procedures to manage adverse events through monitoring activities, weather forecasts 13 Civil society and Zero emissions
and short -, medium- and long-term scenario analysis, to provide for the defi nition of actions to protect local and global ambition
and increase resilience, both for existing assets and for those under construction. Also, best practices communities
are implemented in relation to physical events to ensure prompt recovery of plant and grid operating Customers
conditions following adverse events. Financial community
Enel people
Suppliers and
contractors
Enel promptly monitors network operations, to carry out maintenance on the infrastructure existing in all 7 9 Civil society and Clean
countries, to improve the quality of the service delivered and reduce the number and duration of outages local and global electrifi cation
(SAIDI and SAIFI). communities
Customers
Media
Enel people
Suppliers and
contractors
I in
nt
r ee nla st ifii o en
d
t io
ts
r ris ek las
t
t ioh na st m wia ty
h
a inri ss te
it
ufr to iom
n
are
l
bg ou dla it eo sr
,
y
a
f na dc t iso r ps
r
oa an cd
t
id ve ev ie nl o thp em re en mts
o
vin
a
ll /e rg ei ds ula ct tio ion n, E on
f
e al
l
lh pa os
t ential
6 12 B asu ss oin ce ias ts ie os
n
sand trade N Ca ot nu sre
ervation of
elements that could compromise its positive environmental and social impact.
14 15
Civil society and natural capital
16 local and global
communities
Financial community
Institutions
The health, safety and psychological and physical well-being of individuals is the most precious asset to 8 Enel people Occupational
be protected at all times of life. In order to promote a suitable context in terms of health, safety and well- Suppliers and health and safety
being within the perimeter of the Enel Group, with the aim of implementing plans composed of preventive contractors
measures and measures to protect the health of workers and anyone working for the Group, on both a
local and global level. A listening and psychological support service was renewed for 2022, the purpose
of which is to provide workers with a customized help program in an anonymous, free and confi dential
manner.
Enel has developed upskilling and reskilling programs to support the energy transition: upskilling 4 8 Civil society and Empowering Enel
programs focus on developing existing professional skills, adding new skills based on the needs dictated local and global people
10
by innovative technologies and processes; reskilling programs are aimed at creating new professional communities
profi les, replacing skills that have become obsolete or are no longer needed, and which enable people to Institutions
work on new activities. Enel people
Suppliers and
contractors
Enel maintains dialogue with investors based on principles of fairness and transparency, in compliance with 16 Businesses and trade Sound
EU and national regulations on market abuse, as well as in line with international best practices. In order associations governance
to regulate the methods for developing dialog with the fi nancial community, Enel has adopted a specifi c Financial community Our commitment
Policy (the “Engagement Policy”), which clarifi ed to a large extent the practices already followed by Enel, to continuous
and also took into account the best practices adopted with regard to corporate governance. improvement
By means of dialog with shareholders and bondholders, the Enel Investor Relations unit constantly collects
feedback on how to integrate and improve the Group’s report ing process and make its communications as
eff ective as possible, meeting the needs of the fi nancial markets.
ESG megatrend Material topic Material topic Description of the impact Relevant GRI Duration(3)
(I level) (II, III level)
Increase in SASB(1) Engaging local Social and economic development of Lack of skilled workforce among GRI 413: Local
inequalities and global communities – Transfer of skills and members of the community in which communities
communities upskilling among the local population the Company operates
Increase in SASB(1) Sustainable Respect for human rights in the Reputational damage due to the GRI 414: Supplier Social
inequalities supply chain supply chain – Integration of human Company’s suppliers’ failure to Assessment
rights and labor rights criteria respect workers’ rights
and perf ormance into fuel supply
management
New economy, SASB(1) Products and New technologies and solutions Poor availability of raw materials, -
Digital revolution, services for for Homes, Condominiums, Cities, products and spare part s for
New mobility, electrifi cation Industry and fi nancial activities construction and installation,
Urbanization and digitalization resulting in delays and price
increases
Empowered SASB(1) Customer Quality relations with customers Low customer loyalty and GRI 417: Marketing and
customer centricity – Eff ective and fair relations with satisfaction due to poor-quality labelling
customers service
New economy, Innovation, Digitalization and cyber security – Cyber att acks by cyber criminals,
-
Digital revolution circular economy Cyber security cyber activists, state-sponsored
and digital action groups impacting business
transformation continuity, asset functionality and
sensitive data protection
New economy, New Economic and Long-term value creation strategy Insuffi cient actions and tools GRI 201: Economic
governance models fi nancial value – Business Ownership model, by institutions to support an perf ormance
creation Business Stewardship model acceleration of the energy
GRI 2-2-6: Activities,
transition, resulting in uncert ainty
value chain and other
and slowdown for investments
business relationships
in renewable and low-carbon
technologies
STCAPMI
EVITAGEN
ESG megatrend Material topic Material topic Description of the impact Relevant GRI(2) Duration(3)
(I level) (II, III level)
Increase in SASB(1) Engaging local Social and economic development of Lack of skilled workforce among GRI 413: Local
inequalities and global communities – Transfer of skills and members of the community in which communities
communities upskilling among the local population the Company operates
Increase in SASB(1) Sustainable Respect for human rights in the Reputational damage due to the GRI 414: Supplier Social
inequalities supply chain supply chain – Integration of human Company’s suppliers’ failure to Assessment
rights and labor rights criteria respect workers’ rights
and performance into fuel supply
management
New economy, SASB(1) Products and New technologies and solutions Poor availability of raw materials, -
Digital revolution, services for for Homes, Condominiums, Cities, products and spare parts for
New mobility, electrifi cation Industry and financial activities construction and installation,
Urbanization and digitalization resulting in delays and price
increases
Empowered SASB(1) Customer Quality relations with customers Low customer loyalty and GRI 417: Marketing and
customer centricity – Effective and fair relations with satisfaction due to poor-quality labelling
customers service
New economy, Innovation, Digitalization and cyber security – Cyber attacks by cyber criminals,
-
Digital revolution circular economy Cyber security cyber activists, state-sponsored
and digital action groups impacting business
transformation continuity, asset functionality and
sensitive data protection
New economy, New Economic and Long-term value creation strategy Insufficient actions and tools GRI 201: Economic
governance models financial value – Business Ownership model, by institutions to support an performance
creation Business Stewardship model acceleration of the energy
GRI 2-2-6: Activities,
transition, resulting in uncertainty
value chain and other
and slowdown for investments
business relationships
in renewable and low-carbon
technologies
Priority for stakeholders and the Group Impact relevant on human rights ((11))SSAASSBB M (M (SSaa uutt ssee ttaarrii iiaa nnll aa tt bboo iipp lliittiicc yy ff AArr ccoo ccmm oo uuaa nn fifi tt nn iinnaa ggnn cc SSii ttaa aall nnpp ddoo aaiinn rrddtt ssoo BBff oovvii aaee rrww dd ))ffoorr SSAASSBB
(2) “-” is report ed where the material topic is not currently covered by a specifi c GRI
(3) Duration: Short term (up to 1 year) Medium term (2 to 5 years) Long term (>5 years)
Impact management Rele- Stakeholders involved Stage in Ref. in Sustain-
vant value chain ability Plan and
SDG 2022 Sustainability
Report chapter
Enel is committ ed to promoting training programs dedicated to the local communities in which it 4 8 Civil society and Engaging
operates, as well as training projects developed with local institutions aimed at the socio-economic local and global communities
development of communities. communities
Suppliers and
contractors
Enel people
The selection of the best part ners and the execution of contracts according to the highest standards of 12 Suppliers and Sustainable
sustainability are guaranteed by our analysis and monitoring of the entire procurement process: contractors supply chain
• during the qualifi cation stage, potential suppliers are evaluated according to criteria related to human Businesses and trade Human rights
rights (including occupational health and safety) and the impact of their activities on the environment; associations management
• during the tender stage, there are specifi c mandatory sustainability requirements and reward factors Enel people
(sustainability K), in order to contribute to the promotion of responsible practices at a systemic level; Civil society and
• throughout the term of the contract, Enel monitors compliance with the requirements and reward local and global
factors (Supplier Perf ormance Management). communities
Enel is committ ed to minimize any risks associated with the availability of goods/raw materials and related 9 12 Customers Circular economy
price volatility through: Suppliers and
• early contracting for procurement; contractors
• diversifi cation of supply sources, in terms of suppliers and geographical areas;
• use of derivative fi nancial instruments to hedge exposure.
The Group is committ ed to guaranteeing a high level of service quality and to maximizing customer 11 Civil society and Clean
satisfaction, anticipating market needs in order to ensure reliable responses and establish lasting relations local and global electrifi cation
based on dialog, collaboration and trust: aspects that refer not only to the supply of electricity and/or communities
natural gas, but also and above all to the intangible aspects of the service perceived by the customer Customers
(improvement in communications over contact channels and back offi ce processes, as well as monitoring
of complaints, report ing and requests for information).
Enel also monitors the rate of customer satisfaction in every country in which it operates, with timely
analyses aimed at understanding progress and at prompt implementation of any corrective actions.
Enel respects the confi dentiality and rights to privacy of its stakeholders and is committ ed to the proper 9 11 Enel people Digitalization
use of the data and information provided by people who work with the Group, by customers and by other Civil society and
stakeholders. This commitment is also refl ected in the Group's Policy on Human Rights. The Group has local and global
designed and adopted a holistic framework of processes aimed at governance of cyber security topics, communities
applicable across the board to the Information Technology (IT), Operational Technology (OT) and Internet Customers
of Things (IoT) sectors. Moreover, the Group has defi ned and adopted a risk management method for
IT security in accordance with risk-based and “cyber security by design” approaches, by integrating the
safety requirements along the entire solution and service life cycle. In part icular, the framework adopted
by the Group addresses the monitoring of cyber risks, through eight processes aimed at: ensuring cyber
security governance by guiding the strategy and issuing policies and procedures to respond to the main
existing and emerging national and international regulations on cyber security; identifying and assessing
cyber risks, by defi ning and implementing the related processing actions; providing architectural
guidelines and engineering support for the protection of the Group's solutions and infrastructures (IT/OT/
IoT); monitoring the IT security posture through process and technology checks; guiding and managing
cyber incident prevention and response activities; managing the entire life cycle of the Group's digital
identities and access control; guiding and managing training and awareness initiatives on cyber security
at Group level, by leveraging behaviour and the human factor.
In relation to risks that may arise from regulatory factors, relations were intensifi ed with local government 8 Businesses and trade Zero emissions
and regulatory bodies, adopting an approach based on transparency, collaboration and proactiveness in associations ambition
addressing and removing sources of instability of the legislative and regulatory framework. Civil society and
In addition, for improved orientation of the strategic development guidelines, the evolution of the external local and global
context and the competitive landscape are constantly monitored, both inside and outside the utilities communities
world. Customers
Financial community
Institutions
Suppliers and
contractors
The material topics
3-1 3-2 3-3
The impact analysis model is of fundamental importance topic, which 2nd-3rd level topics are material. The result
as it enables the Company to identify the material topics of this analysis are used to help identify and define the ob-
and focus on the best way to manage them, both in terms jectives to be included in the Strategic Plan and the Sus-
of risk management as well as in terms of strengthening tainability Plan, the achievement of which is contributed to
opportunities. In addition, the Company must recognize its by the various Group Functions and Business Lines, as well
strategic priorities, taking into account also the view of its as the topics covered by the Sustainability Report and oth-
stakeholders. Identifying the priority ESG topics with which er Corporate Reporting documents.
the Company wants to engage therefore strengthens the
profile of impact management. The list of 1st, 2nd and 3rd Level material topics is provid-
ed below together with the respective reference GRI as a
The assessment of the impacts generated and suffered monitoring and management indicator and the reference
and their relative significance guides the identification of to the Sustainability Plan and Sustainability Report 2022.
the material topics: identify, within each 1st Level material
ECNANREVOG
&
SSENISUB
Material topics
Ref. Sustainability
Material topics (1st level) Material topics (2nd, 3rd level) GRI Plan and Sustainabili-
ty Report 2022
• •
Climate change GRI 305: Emissions Zero emissions ambition
–
Reduction of CO emissions
2
• •
Climate change GRI 305: Emissions Zero emissions ambition
– •
Adaptation to extreme weather GRI 304: Biodiversity
•
Decarbonization of events GRI 303: Water and effl uents
•
the energy mix GRI 201: Economic perf ormance
•
DMA (former EU23): Access to energy
•
System effi ciency (EU12)
• •
Use of energy GRI 302: Energy Conservation of natural
–
Reduction of energy consumption capital
•
Ecosystem of innovation and -* Innovation
sustainability
–
Promotion of part nerships
–
Development of the Innovation
Hub&Lab network
–
Support and relationship with
start -ups
–
Intellectual propert y
–
Innovation, Dissemination of a culture of
circular economy innovation and sustainability
–
and digital Crowdsourcing
transformation
•
Digitalization and cyber security -* Digitalization
–
Cyber Security
• •
Circular economy GRI 301: Materials Circular economy
– •
Dissemination of a culture of a GRI 306: Waste Nature
circular economy
–
Use of sustainable input Conservation of natural
capital
•
New technologies and solutions -* Clean electrifi cation
for homes, condominiums, cities,
Digitalization
Products and industries and fi nancial activities
services for •
Electric mobility -* Clean electrifi cation -
electrifi cation and –
Deployment of infrastructures for Electrifi cation of uses
digitalization
electric mobility
Growth accelerators -
digitalization
• •
Ability to meet customer needs GRI 417: Marketing and labelling Clean electrifi cation
– •
Quality and timeliness of the DMA (former EU23): Access to energy
•
commercial off er Communication of DMA EU
Customer information (former EU24)
centricity
• •
Quality of customer relations GRI 417: Marketing and labelling Clean electrifi cation
–
Eff ective and fair relationship with
customers
• •
Improvement and development of DMA (former EU23): Access to energy Clean electrifi cation
grids
–
Development of microgrids and
rural electrifi cation
• •
Infrastructure and Improvement and development of System effi ciency (EU12) Clean electrifi cation
networks grids
–
Improvement of the quality in
energy distribution
• •
Operational management of grids DMA (former EU23): Access to energy Clean electrifi cation
– •
Grid maintenance System effi ciency (EU12)
* - : the material topic is not currently covered by a specifi c GRI.
Ref. Sustainability
Material topics (1st level) Material topics (2nd, 3rd level) GRI Plan and Sustainabili-
ty Report 2022
• •
Fairness in management conduct GRI 205: Anti-corruption Sound governance
•
GRI 2 - 2-23: Commitment in
terms of policy, 2-24: Integration of
commitments in terms of policy
•
GRI 415: Public policy
•
GRI 206: Anti-competitive behavior
•
GRI 1: Fundamental principles
•
GRI 2-2-22: Declaration on the
sustainable development strategy,
2-23: Commitment in terms of policy,
2-24: Integration of commitments in
terms of policy
Sound governance
• •
and fair corporate Structure of the Board of Directors GRI 406: Non-discrimination Sound governance
•
conduct and Top Management GRI 2 - 2-9 Structure and
–
Balanced structure and diversity of composition of governance, 2-10:
the Board of Directors Appointment and selection of the
highest governance body
• •
Fair and transparent communications GRI 415: Public policy Our commitment to
– •
Fairness and transparency of ESG GRI 206: Anti-competitive behavior continuous improvement
•
information GRI 2 - 2-23: Commitment in
terms of policy, 2-24: Integration of
commitments in terms of policy, 2-25:
processes targeted toward remedying
negative impacts
• •
Investment att raction GRI 201: Economic perf ormance Zero emissions ambition
Our commitment to
continuous improvement
Economic and
fi nancial value • Long-term value creation strategy • GRI 201: Economic perf ormance Zero emissions ambition
creation – Business Ownership model • GRI 2 -2-6: Activities, value chain and
– Clean electrifi cation
Business Stewardship model other business relations
• •
Health and safety of workers of GRI 403: Occupational health and Occupational health and
contractors operating on Enel sites safety safety
– •
Promotion of a culture of safety GRI 410: Safety practices
among workers of contractors
who operate at Enel sites
–
Management and monitoring of
Occupational
contractor safety
health and safety
• •
Worker health and safety GRI 403: Occupational health and Occupational health and
–
Promotion of a safety culture safety safety
•
among workers GRI 410: Safety practices
–
Management and monitoring of
worker safety
• •
Quality of corporate life GRI 401: Employment Managing human rights
–
Work-life balance
Empowering Enel people
• •
People development GRI 401: Employment Empowering Enel people
– •
Hiring and remuneration policies GRI 404: Training and education
–
People Upskilling and reskilling
management,
• •
development and Valuing worker diversity GRI 405: Diversity and equal Empowering Enel people
–
motivation Valuing disabilities opport unity
– Managing human rights
Valuing age diversity
–
Valuing gender diversity
–
Valuing other diversities
ECNANREVOG
&
SSENISUB
LAICOS
3
Ref. Sustainability
Material topics (1st level) Material topics (2nd, 3rd level) GRI Plan and Sustainabili-
ty Report 2022
• •
Responsible management of the GRI 204: Procurement practices Sustainable supply chain
•
procurement of goods, services and GRI 308: Supplier Environmental
Managing human rights
works Assessment
–
Integration of environmental,
safety and sustainability
perf ormance criteria in
Sustainable supply procurement management
chain
• •
Respect for human rights in the GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment Sustainable supply chain
supply chain
– Managing human rights
Integration of the criteria
and perf ormance related to
human rights and labor in the
management of fuel procurement
• •
Social and economic development of GRI 413: Local communities Engaging communities
local communities
–
Development and maintenance of
the local supply chains
–
Employment development in the
areas of presence
–
Infrastructural development in the
areas of presence
–
Transfer of skills and
Engaging local and reinforcement of the skills of the
global communities local population
–
Support for entrepreneurial
activities in the community
–
Access to primary goods
• •
Consultation with the local GRI 413: Local communities Engaging communities
community in the development of
new projects
–
Dialog, sharing and engagement in
common objectives
• •
Water management GRI 303: Water and effl uents Nature
– •
Treatment, recycling and use of GRI 306: Water effl uent and waste
Conservation of natural wastewater
capital
• •
Preservation of Protection of biodiversity and natural GRI 304: Biodiversity Nature
ecosystems and –ca pital Conservation of natural
environmental Conservation and promotion of capital
management the local natural heritage
• •
Environmental governance GRI 2-27: Compliance with laws and Nature
–
Environmental policies regulations
Conservation of natural
capital
LAICOS
TNEMNORIVNE
TOPIC VIEW
4.
Our performance
Ambition of zero emissions and clean
electrification
lies at the heart of the strategy we are implementing
in a sustainable and innovative way, to favor
a just transition.
People are the mainstays of
sustainable progress,
not only ours, but also customers, suppliers,
communities, institutions, the financial community,
the media, companies and trade associations.
Innovation, circular economy, digitalization and
sustainable finance
are the growth accelerators, and embrace and
enhance all strategic themes across the board.
Protection of nature and respect
for human rights
form our daily commitment to the current and
future generations.
Zero emissions ambition
Material topics (I level) Plan SDG
Double
materiality
Below the 2022 results related to the targets of the previous 2022-2024 Sustainability Plan, the resulting progress and the tar-
gets of the 2023-2025 Sustainability Plan, which may be redefi ned, added to, or surpassed with respect to the previous Plan.
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
• •
13 Reduction in GHG Scope 1 229 gCO 2eq/kWh 130 gCO 2eq/kWh in 2025 E
emissions intensity relating to power • •
-40% vs 2017(2) -80% in 2030 vs 2017
generation(1)
• •
13 Reduction of GHG emissions intensity 218 gCO 2eq/kWh 135 gCO 2eq/kWh in 2025 E
Scopes 1 and 3 relating to Integrated • •
-36% vs 2017(3) -78% in 2030 vs 2017
Power(1)
• •
13 Reduction of absolute GHG Scope 3 22.9 MtCO 2eq 20.9 MtCO 2eq in 2025 E
emissions relating to Gas Retail • •
-10% vs 2017 -55% in 2030 vs 2017
13 Reduction of additional absolute GHG -24% vs 2017(4) N.A. -55% in 2030 vs 2017 E
emissions (Scopes 1+2+3)(1)
13 MBA-PhD training about resilience 204 people involved 600 people involved in the E
and energy transition in the countries period 2023-2025
17 where the Group operates S
G
(1) The values of the reduction percentages were calculated on an equal perimeter basis, and therefore take into account the 2017 baseline and the 2022 value,
both restated to exclude GHG emissions from assets disposed in the 2017-2022 period, in accordance with SBTi.
(2) The restated value that excludes GHG emissions from assets in operation during 2022 and disposed before the end of the year is 217 gCO /kWh.
2eq
(3) The restated value that excludes GHG emissions from assets in operation during 2022 and disposed before the end of the year is 210 gCO /kWh.
2eq
(4) The restated value that excludes GHG emissions from assets in operation during 2022 and disposed before the end of the year is 17.5 MtCO .
2eq
Goals Progress
I Industrial E Environmental S Social
G Governance T Technological New Redefi ned Outdated Not in line In line Achieved
egnahc
etamilC
• Decarbonization of the
energy mix
Zero emissions
ambition
N.A. = not applicable
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
Promoting the energy transition Port o Tolle: demolition underway 77 sites involved in
7 I
through conversion projects with Augusta: demolition completed repurposing projects,(5)
13 the aim of fi nding new solutions and Bari: demolition completed including: E
ways of using them to develop energy Livorno: Memorandum of Port o Tolle: construction of an
S
conversion, the circular economy, Understanding signed between open-air tourist village by a
while also promoting innovation(5) Enel Logistics and the local third part y; demolition by the T
port authority, change of use counterpart y
underway Augusta: construction of an
Litoral: “Call for Projects” innovative research and study
launched centre in areas no longer
used of the plant, dedicated
to sustainable reclamation,
solutions for mitigating the
environmental impact of plants
and infrastructures, and other
areas relating to the energy
sector and plant species
Livorno: construction of a
logistic-customs area in the site
areas
Bari: construction of an urban
park with multifunctional
areas (co-living, co-working,
co-learning and green areas);
demolition by the counterpart y
Montalto: launch of the
Integrated Intervention Program
in 2023 for a new integrated
energy hub
As Pontes, Litoral, Compostilla,
Alcudia: continuous research to
implement novel initiatives for
new industrialization and energy
development in the areas
Teruel: Coal2RES internal
reconversion and social
development, training, new
projects in the industrial,
commercial and tourism sectors
in the area
(5) Third-part y project initiatives could be developed where in-house redevelopment is not feasible.
seigolonhcet
lanoitnevnoC
Zero emissions
ambition
Climate change represents the main global challenge short to medium term such as the development of new
of this century and Enel plays an active role in the fight technological solutions in the supply chain at large-scale
against it, by leading the global energy transition towards or the improvement of certain market conditions and
zero emissions. policies.
As one of the first signatories of the 2019 “Business Enel aims to promote electrification solutions powered
Ambition for 1.5 °C” campaign promoted by United by renewable sources, complete the phase-out of fossil
Nations, Enel Group has publicly declared its commitment fuels, accelerate renewable sources development, and
to develop a business model in line with the Paris digitize and upgrade networks. Specifically:
•
Agreement (COP 21) objectives, to limit the average by 2025, Enel will cover about 90% of its fixed-price
global temperature increase to 1.5 °C. sales with carbon-free electricity, bringing renewables
In 2021, we have brought forward our commitment to to about 75% of total production.(1) In addition, progress
zero emissions by ten years, from 2050 to 2040. towards digitalization of networks will increase the
In 2022, we reached a historic new milestone by defining share of digitalized customers to around 80%;
•
a decarbonization roadmap that covers both direct and by 2027, Enel will complete the phase-out of all its
indirect emissions throughout the Group’s value chain. coal-fired power plants;
•
Specifically, four targets have been defined, certified by by 2030, around 85% of the installed capacity will be
the Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi) and in line with renewable and 100% of network customers will be fully
keeping global warming within 1.5 ºC. digitalized;
•
The roadmap currently envisages reducing all direct and by 2040 all installed capacity will be 100% renewable,
indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by around the Group will have phased-out both thermoelectric
99% by 2040 compared to 2017 throughout the value generation and retail gas activities and 100% of the
chain, beyond the overall threshold set by SBTi (90%). The electricity sold will be produced from renewable
Group aims to achieve a 100% reduction in all emissions, sources.
with a view of overcoming exogenous factors in the
(1) Includes generation from managed capacity of 25 TWh in 2025.
132.9 229
MtCO gCO /kWh
2eq 2eq
OVERALL GROUP CARBON FOOTPRINT SCOPE 1 GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY
(SCOPE 1, 2 AND 3) RELATING TO POWER GENERATION
125.8 in 2021 +5.6% 225 in 2021 +1.8%
218 22.9 63.3
gCO /kWh MtCO %
2eq 2eq
SCOPE 1 AND 3 GHG EMISSIONS ABSOLUTE SCOPE 3 GHG NET RENEWABLE
INTENSITY RELATING TO EMISSIONS RELATING INSTALLED CAPACITY
INTEGRATED POWER TO GAS RETAIL OUT OF TOTAL
203 in 2021 +7.4% 22.3 in 2021 +2.9% 57.5% in 2021 +5.8%
Enel will also lead its customers towards a decarbonized conservation of nature, as an essential factor in its cor-
electrification of their consumption. Firstly, by increas- porate strategy and everyday operations.
ing the share of renewable electricity consumption, Enel Similarly, there is a strong link between climate change
customers will reduce their indirect Scope 2 emissions; and the social dimension. An active role in the fight
secondly, by expanding the portfolio of products and ser- against climate change focusing on people requires of
vices to accelerate the electrification of other sectors, decarbonization strategies that stimulate social inclu-
such as transport and construction, while promoting en- sion, and at the same time favors decent work, the pillars
ergy efficiency solutions, customers will also reduce their of which – according to the International Labour Organi-
direct Scope 1 emissions. zation – are full productive employment, the guarantee of
Through its business strategy, the Group is committed rights at work, the expansion of social protection, and the
to establish drivers, actions and investments required to development of social dialogue. As such, Enel fully sup-
complete the decarbonization and electrification road- ports the principles of a just transition, so that no one is
map, and identifying, assessing and managing the main left behind even in the short term, and recognizes the rel-
climate risks and business opportunities emerging from evance for its business of the social impacts arising from
the energy transition. its climate strategy, aimed at the progressive reduction of
Particular attention is placed on the climate change ad- emissions in line with the Paris Agreement.
aptation policies to increase the resilience of the assets In addition, as a result of a solid corporate governance
along the entire value chain, thereby limiting potentially system that defines roles and responsibilities, Enel’s
negative impact and guaranteeing a safe and sustainable Board of Directors and Management oversee the main
energy service in all the countries in which the Group op- decisions regarding climate.
erates. In order to guarantee increased transparency in its com-
Enel is committed to carry out its direct and indirect munications and relationships with its stakeholders, the
public advocacy action in line with the Paris Agreement Group periodically reports on its related activities around
and its objective of limiting global warming within 1.5 °C climate change in line with the international standards
through the engagement of institutional stakeholders, of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Sustain-
trade associations, non-governmental organizations and ability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and is public-
academics. Enel promotes its point of view on public pol- ly committed to adopting the recommendations of the
icies in the fight against climate change and on the path- Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
ways of decarbonization and electrification. of the Financial Stability Board. The guidance from the
In addition, Enel is fully aware of the intrinsic link between “Enhancement and Standardization of Climate-Related
climate change and nature loss. Rising temperatures, Disclosures” of the SEC (Securities and Exchange Com-
changes in precipitation patterns and extreme weather mission), the standards issued on the EFRAG website, and
events impact significantly on ecosystems, forests and the ISSB’s recently published exposure draft are also tak-
biodiversity. The decline of nature also affects the resil- en into account.
ience of ecosystems to climate change, and the abili- For details on the alignment of the structure of the
ty to capture carbon and generate benefits for society. chapter relating to the TCFD recommendations, please
Therefore, Enel’s business model aims to synergistically see the TCFD Content Index in the 2022 Sustainability
address climate change and promote the protection and Report.
Enel’s roadmap
to decarbonization
and electrification
TCFD: Metrics & Targets
In 2022, Enel carried out a full update of its decarbon- tric and renewable plants and energy distribution assets
ization roadmap. The process was validated by the Sci- that were disposed or are no longer consolidated within
ence-Based Targets initiative according to the criteria and Enel’s financial perimeter, in accordance with the GHG
recommendations related to short-term objectives and Protocol and SBTi guidelines;
•
according to the SBTi Corporate Net Zero standard. This target ambition on Scope 1 GHG emissions intensity
review included updating existing medium-term (2030) relating to power generation has been improved, from
and long-term (2040) objectives, as well as setting new 82 gCO /kWh to 72 gCO /kWh by 2030. This target
2eq 2eq
targets, all aligned to a 1.5 °C pathway, as defined by the covers all greenhouse gas emissions (including CO , CH
2 4
SBTi, according to IPCC scenarios and other international and NO) deriving from the power generation process
2
benchmarks. with respect to total electricity and heat generated by
The main updates are: the Group (excluding pumped storage generation to
•
2017 baseline was restated for all targets to exclude avoid possible double counting in the Scope 2 emissions
those direct and indirect GHG emissions from assets calculation).
disposed in 2017-2022 period, including thermoelec-
Scope 1 GHG emissions intensity relating to power generation (gCO /kWh)
2eq
-80% -100% SBTi‘s 1.5 °C pathway, based on IPCC scenarios
vs 2017 vs 2017 and adjusted to Enel‘s baseline.
365
1.5 °C 1.5 °C
Short -term targets set in the Business Plans
275 2021-2023 / 2022-2024 / 2023-2025,
246 respectively.
229
218 Medium- and long-term targets validated
192 by SBTi in December 2022 according to the
148 140 130 75 N pae tt h Z we ar yo . Standard and aligned with the 1.5 °C
72(3)
Zero emissions
2017 2022(2) 2023 2024 2025 2030 2040
baseline
(restated)(1)
(1) The 2017 baseline has been restated from 416 gCO /kWh to 365 gCO /kWh to exclude GHG emissions from assets disposed in 2017-2022 period, in
2eq 2eq
accordance with SBTi.
(2) 2022 value has not been restated and includes the GHG emissions of assets in operation during 2022 and disposed before the end of the year, according
to the consolidation guidelines of the Sustainability Report . The fi gure, excluding GHG emissions from these assets, is 217 gCO /kWh, down 40%
2eq
compared to the restated baseline.
(3) Target previously validated by SBTi in 2020 (1.5 °C pathway) of 82 gCO /kWh.
2eq
Scope 1 and 3 GHG emissions intensity relating to Integrated Power (gCO /kWh)
2eq
-78% -100% SBTi‘s 1.5 °C pathway, based on IPCC scenarios
332 vs 2017 vs 2017 and adjusted to Enel‘s baseline.
258
1.5 °C 1.5 °C
Short-term target set in the Business Plan
218 183 2023-2025.
135 74 Medium- and long-term targets validated by
SBTi in December 2022 according to the Net
73 Zero Standard and aligned with the 1.5 °C
pathway.
• 2017 2022(2) 2204263 2024 2025 2030 2040 respectively.
target ambition on Scope 1 and 3 GHG emissions inten- rect GHG emissions (Scope 3) from power generation
baseline 229
s(irtesyt arteedl)a(1)ting to Integrated Power 2h18as been improved, electricity purchasedM aed ni dum s- o a ln dd t l oon eg n-t der cm u t sa trg oe mts e v ra slid (a at ned e le-
192 by SBTi in December 2022 according to the
(1) f taro
r
T agm ch ce
e o
t28
r
0 di3 s1 a7
nc
g cb aeaC ls wcO e iul ti2n hle ae q
S
t/ h Bek a TdW s
i.
b ah e se nt to 1 hre 4 es78 t 3 a ct oeg d mC fr bO o im n21e
a
4q4 t/ 1 ik 06 oW g nC h oO f2b eqdy /k
i
1 rW2 e30 ch03 tt o0
G
3. r6T o5h
u
gi ps C 7O5 2eq/kWh tom
t
eexe gcn olut rd yo e f oG t fHh G te
h
e e3 m - i GsF s Hu ioe Gnl s a pfN prn roae od mtt h
t
Z wE oae asn cr syoe o.e S tr ls tga
S
dyn ci d sR opaer o pd sl
e
a ea t dn 3e d in d a
s
2 l tiAg 0 an 1c n7et - ddi 2v aw 0it r2iti d2eh
)
ps ,t h e dse riu io1 vb. d i5 d,c ° i eC na
d
-
(2) 2022 value has not been restated and includes the GHG emissions of7 a2ss(3e)ts in operation during 2022 and disposed before the end of the year, according
GHG emissions (Scope 1 – including CO , CH and NO) by power generation (including heat and excluding pum-
to the consolidation guidelines of the Sustainabilit2y Repo4rt . The fi g2ure, excluding GHG emissions from these assets, is 217 gCO /kWh, down 40%
2eq
frocmom pealreecdt troic thitey r easntadte dh beaaste lingee.neration and Group indi- ped Zp eo rw o ee mr s ist so iora ng se) and purchase of electricity;
(3) Target previously validated by SBTi in 2020 (1.5 °C pathway) of 82 gCO /kWh.
2eq
2017 2022(2) 2023 2024 2025 2030 2040
baseline
(restated)(1)
Scope 1 and 3 GHG emissions intensity relating to Integrated Power (gCO /kWh)
(1) The 2017 baseline has been restated from 416 gCO /kWh to 365 gCO /kWh to exclude GHG emissions from2e aqssets disposed in 2017-2022 period, in
2eq 2eq
accordance with SBTi.
(2) 2022 value has not been restated and includes the GHG emissions of assets in operation during 2022 and disposed before the end of the year, according
to the consolidation guidelines of the Sus-t7a8in%ability Re-p1o0rt 0. %The fi gure, excluding GHG emissions from theseS aBsTsi‘es t1s.,5 i s°C 2 1p7a tghCwOay, b/aksWedh ,o dno IPwCnC 4 s0c%e narios
2eq
c3o3m2pared to the restated baseline. vs 2017 vs 2017 and adjusted to Enel‘s baseline.
(3) Target previous2ly5 8validated by SBTi in 210.250 ° C(1.5 °C pa1t.h5w °aCy) of 82 gCO 2eq/kWh.
Short -term target set in the Business Plan
218 183 2023-2025.
135 74 Medium- and long-term targets validated by
Scope 1 and 3 GHG emissions intensity relating to Integrated Power (gCSOBTi in/ DkeWcemhb)er 2022 according to the Net
73 Zer2oe Sqtandard and aligned with the 1.5 °C
pathway.
-78% -100Z%ero emissions SBTi‘s 1.5 °C pathway, based on IPCC scenarios
332 vs 2017 vs 2017 and adjusted to Enel‘s baseline.
2017 2022582(2) 2025 2030 2040
1.5 °C 1.5 °C
baseline Short -term target set in the Business Plan
(restated)(1) 218 183 2023-2025.
135 74 Medium- and long-term targets validated by
(1) The 2017 baseline has been restated from 373 gCO 2eq/kWh to 332 gCO 2eq/kWh to exclude GHG emissions fSroBmTi ains sDeetcse dmisbpeors e2d02 in2 2a0cc17o-r2d0in2g2 tpoe trhioed N, ient
accordance with SBTi. 73 Zero Standard and aligned with the 1.5 °C
(2) The 2022 value has not been restated and includes the GHG emissions from assets in operation during 2022p aatnhdw dayis.posed before the end of the year,
according to the consolidation guidelines of the Sustainability Report . The fi gure, excluding GHG emissions by these assets, is 210 gCO /kWh, down
2eq
36% compared to the restated baseline. Zero emissions
2017 2022(2) 2025 2030 2040
baseline
Ab(rsesotaltuedt)e(1) Scope 3 GHG emissions relating to Gas Retail (MtCO )
2eq
•
target ambition on absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions re- level of alignment with temperature scenarios of the Pa-
(1) The 2017 baseline has been restated from 373 gCO /kWh to 332 gCO /kWh to exclude GHG emissions from assets disposed in 2017-2022 period, in
lating to Gas Retail has been significantly im2eqproved from 2eq ris Agreement, from a previous 2 °C pathway to one of
accordance with SBTi.
-55% -100% Short -term targets set in the Business Plan
(2) 21 T a.2 ch ce oM 2 r0 dt2 iC n2 gO v ta 2ol eu qte
h
t eho a
c
s o1 n n1o s. ot4 lb
i
deM ae tn it
o
Cr ne Os gt u2a eit dqe
e
db
li
nay en v sd2s
o
i02n f0 3c t1l hu07 ed, e Sts uo st h taie vn
i
s nGc a2Hr b0eG i1 lia
t
7e ysm Rei
e
s ptsh oio rten
.
s
T
f hr eo m
fi g
a us rs ee
,
t1 es x. 5i cn
l u
°o dCp ine, grta o Gti o Hwn Gh d eiuc mrhi in
s
g st
i
h o2e n0 s2 t 2 2 ba 0 yar 2n tg 3 hde e- d 2 st 0 ei si 2sp a5 o sn . ss eoe tdw
s
,b ia se fl 2oig 1r 0en gteh Cde
O
;end
/k
o Wf t hh
,
e
d
oye wa nr ,
36% compared to the restated baselin1e..5 °C 1.5 °C Medium- and long-term tar2 geq ets validated
by SBTi in December 2022 according to the
Net Zero Standard and aligned with the 1.5 °C
25.3
22.9 pathway.
20.9
Absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions relating to Gas Retail (MtCO )
2eq
11.4(1)
Zero emissions
-55% -100% Short -term targets set in the Business Plan
vs 2017 vs 2017 2023-2025.
2017 2022 2025 2030 2040
1.5 °C 1.5 °C
Medium- and long-term targets validated
by SBTi in December 2022 according to the
Net Zero Standard and aligned with the 1.5 °C
(1) T2ar5ge.3t previously validated by SBTi in 2019 (WB2C scenario) of 21.2 MtCO .
22.9 20.9 2eq pathway.
11.4(1)
Zero emissions
2017 2022 2025 2030 2040
(1) Target previously validated by SBTi in 2019 (WB2C scenario) of 21.2 MtCO .
2eq
•
new target has been defined for additional absolute ology, which translate into two decarbonization curves:
–
Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. The target covers i) Scope 2017-2030 roadmap covers specific supply chain cat-
1 GHG emissions from vehicles fleet and buildings, and egories that accounted for 40% of supplier emissions
losses of SF in distribution assets; ii) all Scope 2 emis- in 2017;
6
–
sions; iii) Scope 3 emissions from the supply chain and 2017-2040 roadmap covers all supply categories in-
all other activities related to fuel purchase and transpor- cluded in the 2017-2030 roadmap and additional
tation. This objective provides for different levels of cov- ones, which account for 54% of supplier emissions in
erage of GHG emissions deriving from the supply chain 2017.
for the 2030 and 2040 targets, allowed by SBTi method-
Additional Scope 1–2-3 emissions (MtCO )
2eq
2017-2030 roadmap 2017-2040 roadmap
-55% -90%
vs 2017 24.5 vs 2017
23.1
1.5 °C 1.5 °C
20.7
18.7
10.4
Net Zero
Emissions
<2.5
2017 2022(2) 2030 2017 2022(2) 2040
baseline baseline
(restated)(1) (restated)(1)
Medium- and long-term targets validated by SBTi in December 2022 • 2017-2030 roadmap covers specifi c supply chain categories that
according to the Net Zero Standard and aligned with the 1.5 °C pathway. accounted for 40% of supplier's emissions in 2017.
(1) 2017 baseline has been restated from 25.0 MtCO to 23.1 MtCO • 2017-2040 roadmap covers all supply chain categories included in
2eq 2eq
for 2017-2030 roadmap and from 26.5 MtCO to 24.5 MtCO for the 2017-2030 roadmap and additional ones, which accounted for
2eq 2eq
2017-2040 roadmap to exclude GHG emissions from assets disposed 54% of supplier's emissions in 2017.
in 2017-2022 period in accordance with SBTi.
(2) 2022 fi gure has not been restated and includes the GHG emissions of
assets in operation during 2022 and disposed before the end of the
year, following the consolidation guidelines of the Sustainability Report .
The fi gure, excluding GHG emissions by these assets, is 17.5 MtCO
2eq
for the 2017-2030 roadmap, down 24% compared to the restated
baseline and 19.5 MtCO for the 2017-2040 roadmap, down 20%
2eq
from the restated baseline.
The first three targets envisage a 100% reduction in emis- emissions were excluded as they were not directly relat-
sions generated by 2040, as the Group will produce and sell ed to the combustion process for electricity generation
100% of energy from renewable sources by then and will or the power distribution activity (such as GHG emis-
no longer maintain a presence in the retail gas market. The sions from ancillary services in renewable power plants
fourth objective currently envisages a 90% reduction by 2040 and distribution sites, CH leakage in gas-fired plants,
4
from 2017, with a residual volume of less than 2.5 MtCO , and SF leakage in thermal and renewable plants) or of
2eq 6
which will be neutralized through carbon removal in the event biogenic origin (such as CH emissions from hydroelec-
4
that the current external factors (linked to the supply chain, tric reservoirs);
•
the market and the regulatory frameworks) that prevent Enel 100% of Scope 2 emissions, including all indirect emis-
from mitigating them will also be present after 2040. sions from electricity consumption and technical grid
losses;
•
The four targets cover the 93.3% of the total direct and 87% of Scope 3 emissions for the target set for 2030,
indirect GHG emissions reported by Enel in 2022. Specif- compared to 90% for the target set for 2040. Specific
ically: categories of the supply chain have been excluded from
•
98.6% of Scope 1 GHG emissions. Minor sources of GHG the scope of the targets.
GHG sources
Core business Climatic
GHG targets covered (GHG Timing GHG targets Main drivers and actions
activity scenario
Protocol)(1)
• Gradual phase-out of coal-fi red capacity
over the period 2023-2025 (percentage
weight of coal-fi red capacity in
consolidated capacity from about 7% in
2022 to less than 0.5% in 2025).
• Invest 15 billion euros to accelerate
130 gCO /
2eq 1.5 °C(3) the development of renewable energy
kWh
by installing 17 GW of new renewable
capacity (including about 13 GW at
consolidated level) and 4 GW of BESS in
the period 2023-2025, reaching 75 GW
of renewable capacity (including 4 GW of
Intensity of BESS) by 2025.
GHG Scope • Continue the process of decarbonization
98.2%
1 emissions Electricity of electricity generation, thanks to a
relating generation of Scope 1 GHG 72 gCO / Group-wide investment plan that will
emissions(2) 2eq be confi rmed at the annual levels of the
to power kWh
1.5 °C 2023-2025 plan, reaching a managed
generation (-80% (SBTi capacity of more than 130 GW by 2030,
compared to
cert ifi ed) thus bringing the Group’s generation
baseline year
facilities to consist of about 85%
2017)
renewable plants.
• Exit the coal-fi red generation business
on a global scale by 2027.
0 gCO /kWh
2eq
(-100% • Exit the thermal electricity generation
compared to 1.5 °C business, achieving a 100% renewable
baseline year (SBTi energy mix.
2017) cert ifi ed) • No use of carbon removal technologies
Zero emissions
• Increase the share of renewable energy
sold to customers by increasing the
Group’s renewable generation.
• Increase from about 70% in 2022 to
about 90% in 2025 the share of fi xed-
135 gCO /
2eq 1.5 °C(3) price power sales covered by carbon-
kWh
free sources in core countries, while
simultaneously increasing the volumes of
electricity sold at fi xed prices from about
185 TWh in 2022 to about 200 TWh in
• 98.2% 2025.
Intensity of of Scope 1 • Increase the share of renewable energy
GHG Scope GHG emissions sold to customers by increasing the
1 and 3 Sale of • 73.4% Group’s renewable energy generation,
emissions electricity
of Scope 3
73 gCO 2eq/ reaching a managed capacity of more
kWh than 130 GW by 2030, thus bringing the
relating to GHG emissions 1.5 °C
(-78% Group’s generation facilities to consist of
Integrated - category (SBTi
compared to about 85% renewable plants.
Power 3 (fuel and baseline year cert ifi ed) • Continue the strategy of balancing
energy related
2017) supply and demand and increasing
activities)
the share of electricity sold at fi xed
price covered by carbon-free power
generation.
0 gCO /kWh
2eq
(-100%
compared to 1.5 °C • Achieve 100% of energy sales from
baseline year (SBTi renewable sources by 2040.
2017) cert ifi ed) • No use of carbon removal technologies
Zero emissions
Timing: Short term (2025) Medium-term (2030) Long-term (2040)
GHG sources
Core business Climatic
GHG targets covered (GHG Timing GHG targets Main drivers and actions
activity scenario
Protocol)(1)
• Promote the switch of customers from
gas to electricity (especially residential
customers) by pushing more effi cient
electrical technologies (e.g. heat pumps
for home heating or induction hobs in
kitchens), increasing the electrifi cation
rate of our customers in Italy and Spain
from 17% in 2022 to over 20% in 2025.
• Promote electrifi cation-enabling
services to end customers: increasing
behind-the-meter storage capacity
from about 75 MW in 2022 to about 352
MW in 2025, increasing the capacity
20.9 MtCO n.a.(4) of photovoltaic panels installed by end
2eq
customers from about 100 MW in 2022
to about 300 MW in 2025, and increasing
demand response capacity from about
8.5 GW in 2022 to about 12.4 GW in
2025.
• Reduce the volumes of gas sold to end
customers from about 10.2 bcm in 2022
to about 4.3 bcm in 2025.
• Optimize the gas port folio of customers
(especially industrial customers) by
Absolute
reducing the number of customers in the
Scope
100% retail gas business from about 6.5 million
3 GHG of Scope 3 GHG in 2022 to about 4.4 million in 2025.
emissions Gas sales to the emissions -
relating to end customer category 11 • Promote the switch of customers from
gas sales (use of sold gas to electricity (especially residential
in the end products) customers) through the promotion of
market. more effi cient electrical technologies
(e.g. heat pumps for home heating or
induction hobs in kitchens), increasing
the electrifi cation rate of our customers
11.4 MtCO in Italy and Spain from 17% in 2022 to
2eq
(-55% 1.5 °C over 30% in 2030.
compared to (SBTi • Continue the strategic actions envisaged
baseline year cert ifi ed) for the short term, by continuing to
2017) promote services to end customers that
enable the electrifi cation of consumption
and achieving a demand response
capacity by 2030 of more than 20 GW.
• Optimize the gas port folio of customers
(especially industrial customers) by
continuing to reduce the volume of gas
sold to about 3 bcm in 2030.
0 MtCO
(-100% 2eq • Achieve 100% sales of energy covered by
compared to 1.5 °C renewable sources by 2040.
baseline year (SBTi • Exit from the business of gas sales to
2017) cert ifi ed) retail by 2040.
• No use of carbon removal technologies.
Zero emissions
Timing: Short term (2025) Medium-term (2030) Long-term (2040)
GHG sources
Core business Climatic
GHG targets covered (GHG Timing GHG targets Main drivers and actions
activity scenario
Protocol)(1)
• Invest a total of 15 billion euros in
distribution networks over the period
2023-2025, of which 11% to increase
digitalization and 47% to improve the
resilience and quality of networks, thus
helping to reduce network losses and
related emissions. Replace existing
components of the distribution network
infrastructure with SF-free solutions.
6
• Electrify the fl eet and buildings by 2030.
• 0.4%
10.4 MtCO • Implement a circular procurement
2eq
of Scope 1 (-55% 1.5 °C approach and increase the number of
GHG emissions compared to (SBTi contracts that include the measurement
the baseline cert ifi ed) of the carbon footprint of products
• 100%
year 2017) and services purchased by Enel by
• Electricity of Scope 2 incentivizing their reduction in a
distribution GHG emissions decarbonization pathway shared with
(Scopes 1 our suppliers. Strengthen the dialogue
and 2) • 28.6% with manufacturers or raw materials and
• Fleet of Scope 3 other utilities to defi ne eff ective and
management GHG emissions long-term common decarbonization
Additional of vehicles, - category 1 strategies.
absolute buildings and (purchase of • Phase out coal-fi red generation by 2027,
Scope 1-2-3 other assets goods and mitigating all GHG emissions related to
(Scopes 1 services) for coal supply.
emissions and 2)
the 2030 target
• Supply chain
and 43.0%
management • Promote the digitalization of the
for the 2040
(Scope 3) target(5) distribution network and replace existing
• Purchase network infrastructure components with
of fuels • 26.6% SF 6-free solutions.
(Scope 3) of Scope 3 • Implement a circular procurement
approach and increase the number of
GHG emissions
- category <2.5 MtCO contracts that include the measurement
3 (fuel and (-90% 2eq of the carbon footprint of products
energy related compared to 1.5 °C and services purchased by Enel by
activities) the baseline (SBTi incentivizing their reduction in a
year 2017) cert ifi ed) decarbonization pathway shared with
our suppliers. Strengthen the dialogue
Net zero with manufacturers or raw materials and
emissions other utilities to defi ne eff ective and
long-term common decarbonization
strategies.
• Zero emissions from gas extraction
activities by exiting the business of both
electricity generation from gas and gas
sales to end customers.
Total coverage of Scope 1-2-3
emissions in 2022
• 98.6% of Scope 1 GHG emissions (2025, 2030, 2040 target)
• 100% of Scope 2 GHG emissions (2030, 2040 target)
• 87% (2030 target) and 90% (2040 target) of Scope 3 GHG emissions(5)
(1) Percentages based on total GHG emissions in 2022.
(2) Marginal Scope 1 GHG emissions not directly related to the combustion process of fossil fuels for power generation in thermal power plants were excluded,
representing 1.4% of total Scope 1 emissions in 2022. In any case, the GHG emissions covered by all of the above targets together represent 98.7% of total
Scope 1 and 2 emissions in 2022 and are therefore above the 95% threshold required by SBTi.
(3) The target meets the 1.5 °C path set by SBTi for the electricity service sector (sectoral decarbonization approach, SDA), although it could not be offi cially
validated because SBTi does not cert ify targets with a timeframe of less than fi ve years from the date of submission.
(4) The target could not be offi cially validated because SBTi does not cert ify targets with a timeframe of less than fi ve years from the date of submission. Fur-
thermore, SBTi has not defi ned a sectoral decarbonization approach for these types of emissions, so the level of ambition cannot be verifi ed.
(5) Two diff erent percentage limits to the supply chain GHG Scope 3 target have been defi ned, as allowed by the SBTi methodology, which requires at least 67%
of Scope 3 emissions to be covered for the 2030 target, and at least 90% for the 2040 target.
Timing: Short term (2025) Medium-term (2030) Long-term (2040)
Enel’s impact on climate change
3-3 201-2
Enel’s impact on climate change in 2022
• • •
81.6 million Avoided CO emissions from 45.8 million By providing data in 22.6 Contribution to CO emission
2 2
t of electricity generation end users quasi real time, smart thousand reduction in other sectors
eq •
avoided CO Contribution to CO with active meters permit an effi cient publicly through the electrifi cation
2 2 emission reduction in other smart management of the energy owned of consumption, including
sectors(²) through a zero- meters supply and demand, charging transport by promoting
emission energy mix promoting informed and points for electric mobility
sustainable consumption electric
mobility
• • •
99 MW Increase in storage 2.6 A reliable and resilient 3 million Energy effi ciency solutions
capacity(3) number of grid helps reduce the CO smart public for reducing consumption
2
service in- emissions associated with lighting (residential, city and industry)
terruptions grid losses points
per client
(SAIFI)(4)
Value chain Generation Networks Retail
• • • 52.1 million Direct greenhouse gas 3.3 million Indirect greenhouse gas 28.4 million Indirect greenhouse gas
t CO emissions for electricity t CO emissions associated with t CO emissions associated with eq 2 eq 2 eq 2 generation (Scope 1)(5) technical losses from the the purchase of electricity
grid (Scope 2)(6) sold to the end customer
(Scope 3)
• •
10.3 million Indirect greenhouse 22.9 million Indirect greenhouse gas
t CO gas emissions from t CO emissions associated with
eq 2 eq 2
fuel extraction and the use of natural gas sold in
transport ation (Scope 3) the retail market (Scope 3)
(1) Includes the generation of renewable and nuclear energy.
(2) The GHG Protocol requires the consumption of electricity to be considered when calculating the Company’s carbon footprint as indirect emissions (Scope 2).
(3) Includes the contribution of the Global Power Generation Business Line.
(4) SAIFI, System Average Interruption Frequency Index.
(5) Other Scope 1 emissions were indicated in the paragraph “Our carbon footprint”.
stcapmi
evitisoP
Electrifi cation of the energy demand
CO free generation(1) Digitalization of the grid
2 and promotion of energy effi ciency
Thermal production Technical losses from the grid Sales of retail electricity and gas
stcapmi
evitageN
Enel’s impact on climate change in 2022
• • •
81.6 million Avoided CO emissions from 45.8 million By providing data in 22.6 Contribution to CO emission
2 2
t of electricity generation end users quasi real time, smart thousand reduction in other sectors
eq •
avoided CO Contribution to CO with active meters permit an efficient publicly through the electrification
2 2
emission reduction in other smart management of the energy owned of consumption, including
sectors(²) through a zero- meters supply and demand, charging transport by promoting
emission energy mix promoting informed and points for electric mobility
sustainable consumption electric
mobility
• • • 99 MW Increase in storage 2.6 A reliable and resilient 3 million Energy efficiency solutions
capacity(3) number of grid helps reduce the CO smart public for reducing consumption
2 service in- emissions associated with lighting (residential, city and industry)
terruptions grid losses points
per client
(SAIFI)(4)
Value chain Generation Networks Retail
• • •
52.1 million Direct greenhouse gas 3.3 million Indirect greenhouse gas 28.4 million Indirect greenhouse gas
t CO emissions for electricity t CO emissions associated with t CO emissions associated with
eq 2 eq 2 eq 2
generation (Scope 1)(5) technical losses from the the purchase of electricity
grid (Scope 2)(6) sold to the end customer
(Scope 3)
• • 10.3 million Indirect greenhouse 22.9 million Indirect greenhouse gas
t CO gas emissions from t CO emissions associated with eq 2 eq 2 fuel extraction and the use of natural gas sold in
transportation (Scope 3) the retail market (Scope 3)
(1) Includes the generation of renewable and nuclear energy.
(2) The GHG Protocol requires the consumption of electricity to be considered when calculating the Company’s carbon footprint as indirect emissions (Scope 2).
(3) Includes the contribution of the Global Power Generation Business Line.
(4) SAIFI, System Average Interruption Frequency Index.
(5) Other Scope 1 emissions were indicated in the paragraph “Our carbon footprint”.
(6) Other Scope 2 emissions were indicated in the paragraph “Our carbon footprint”.
stcapmi
evitisoP
Electrification of the energy demand
CO free generation(1) Digitalization of the grid
2 and promotion of energy efficiency
Thermal production Technical losses from the grid Sales of retail electricity and gas
stcapmi
evitageN
Electricity is essential to guarantee the sustainable prog- associated with the acquisition of electricity to cover their
ress of modern societies and represents a key factor in energy demand.
reaching the goals of the United Nations 2030 Agenda, in
particular SDG 7, to guarantee everyone accessible, reli- Electricity grids‘ management involves indirect green-
able, sustainable and modern energy, and SDG 13, regard- house gas emissions (Scope 2) associated with technical
ing climate action. energy losses on the grid of 3.3 mil t of CO in 2022 (ac-
eq 2
cording to the “location based” calculation methodology).
Electricity generation has always played a key role in cli- Enel is actively investing in the digitalization and automa-
mate change, as the use of fossil fuels is a considerable tion of the electricity grid to reduce these losses and in-
source of greenhouse gas emissions. Technological de- crease reliability, while promoting the diffusion of renew-
velopment, in particular in the area of renewable energies, ables in the energy system.
has completely transformed this scenario by making elec-
tricity one of the main solutions for reducing the carbon Concerning the end customer, the use of the products
footprint worldwide. Enel is aware of these impacts and sold by Enel’s customers generates GHG emissions that
implements specific actions to minimize them, promoting are accounted for as indirect (Scope 3). In particular, the
the decarbonization of the energy system and the electri- emissions connected to the purchase of electricity to be
fication of the energy demand. As a result, this reduces the sold to customers equaled approximately 28.4 mil t of
eq
greenhouse gas emissions along the entire value chain. CO , whereas those related to the use of gas sold equaled
2
22.9 mil t of CO . Enel regularly monitors these emissions
eq 2
Enel’s power generation from fossil fuels (mainly gas and and adopts measures aimed at minimizing them. Further-
coal) traditionally represents the main source of green- more, it offers its customers technical solutions to reduce
house gas emissions. In particular, in 2022 the direct emis- carbon emissions related to their energy consumption in a
sions (Scope 1) relating to power generation from fossil wide range of sectors, including transport, property man-
fuels were about 52.1 mil t CO , whereas indirect emis- agement as well as industrial processes and services. For
eq 2
sions (Scope 3) relating to the extraction and transport of example, with Enel X the Group is promoting the deploy-
fuels were 10.3 mil t of CO . Enel is reducing this impact ment of owned public charging infrastructure for electri-
eq 2
by accelerating the phase out of coal-fired plants, with a cal vehicles (22,600 charging points installed in 2022), the
reduction of capacity in 2022 of around 2.5 GW compared development of energy efficiency solutions, distributed
to 2021. In parallel, the Group is increasing the develop- generation, consultancy services, smart public lighting and
ment of renewable capacity that, together with the con- circular cities.
tribution of nuclear generation, has avoided 81.6 mil t of
eq
CO emissions. Furthermore, Enel is actively committed to Emissions related to the activities of the Group’s suppli-
2
the development of electricity storage systems that sup- ers amounted to 14.2 mil t of CO in 2022. To reduce this
eq 2
port the integration of renewable capacity, with a total in- impact, Enel adopts a circular procurement approach and
stalled capacity of 316 MW in 2022. Decarbonization of the includes assessments of the carbon footprint of the prod-
energy mix also has a positive impact on the reduction of ucts and services involved in the purchasing processes
customers’ indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) and encourages their reduction.
Advocacy about
climate change policies
Within the framework of its commitment to climate mate Policies unit. This unit is responsible for developing
change, Enel is firmly committed to promoting and defin- global scenarios and position papers on climate policies
ing: with the support of the Country and Global Business Lines.
•
ambitious climate and decarbonization targets consis- Its objective is to guide Enel’s national and local advocacy
tent with the objectives set by the Paris Agreement; activities, thanks to a continuous dialog with institutions
•
effective and efficient implementation mechanisms ca- and the widest possible range of stakeholders active in the
pable of exploiting market dynamics, by fully supporting climate debate. In this sense, Enel is also committed to en-
the role of carbon pricing; sure continuous and full alignment with the objectives of
•
constant dialog on climate issues within multi-stake- the Paris Agreement within the associations of which it is
holder initiatives, actively contributing to groups and a member.
coalitions such as the Just Transition Think Lab and
Caring for Climate under the UN Global Compact, the During 2022, the Group represented its interests and
SOS 1.5 and Policy Advocacy and Member Mobilization promoted its position vis-à-vis the European institutions
(PAMM) projects of the WBCSD (World Business Council (Commission, Parliament, Council) with the aim of orien-
for Sustainable Development), and the World Bank’s Car- tating legislative proposals and decisions that could have
bon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC); affected the EU’s Climate and Energy Policy Framework,
•
private sector leadership on decarbonization through and the Group’s activities. In carrying out these activities,
its continued participation in initiatives such as the CEO Enel is committed to acting in a transparent and respon-
Alliance, WEF CEO Climate Leaders Alliance, IETA (Inter- sible manner. In this sense, it is listed on the European
national Emissions Trading Association), FMC (First Mov- Transparency Register,(2) the specific activities of which
ers Coalition), and regional and national trade associa- are linked to the main EU legislative and/or policy pro-
tions. posals (including the European Green Deal, Fit for 55, the
REPowerEU plan, ETS reform, Air Quality Directives, Sus-
Enel is committed to ensuring that its direct advocacy ac- tainable Finance, State Aid and Competition, Hydrogen).
tivities are aligned with the objectives of the Paris Agree- The dedicated website contains a public list of meetings
ment, involving institutional stakeholders, trade associa- Enel has held with the EU Commissioners, members of
tions, non-governmental organizations and academia, in their Cabinets and EC Directors-General between Decem-
order to promote the Group’s vision on climate and poli- ber 2014 and January 2023. Specifically, for 2022, issues
cies to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions. Stakeholder discussed included: the European Green Deal, Energy Tax-
engagement contributes to the evolution of the regulatory ation Directive (ETD), Carbon Border Adjustment Mecha-
framework towards ambitious climate goals and promotes nism (CBAM), the Renewable Energy Directive, and the ETS
an economy in which carbon pricing plays a fundamental Directive. In addition, Enel’s positions and responses to EU
role in orientating long-term investments. consultations (such as the Critical Raw Materials Act) are
In particular, Enel interacts directly with policy makers, made public, together with a list of the main professional
contributes to the positioning of trade associations, and associations and think-tanks in which Enel is active.
engages with a broader set of stakeholders to build con-
sensus and support for specific policy proposals. In all countries, Enel’s pursues its advocacy efforts through
Enel supports the integration of carbon pricing into the specific activities and broader stakeholder engagement
decision-making process in all countries where it oper- on decarbonization and energy transition issues. The ap-
ates. In doing so, it underlines the importance of well-func- proach is similar to that adopted at global level. The objec-
tioning mechanisms for carbon taxation and emissions tives of the Enel Group’s advocacy policy include promoting
trading. These must be able to provide short- and medi- greater climate ambition, carbon pricing, accelerating the
um-term predictability to support market efficiency, as well deployment of renewable technologies, developing and
as strong long-term price signals to support investment upgrading infrastructure through smart grid technologies
and innovation. to support the energy transition, and electrification as a
The worldwide coordination of Enel’s global public policy means for decarbonizing energy end-uses. In this context,
positioning on climate is ensured by the Energy and Cli- through the “Energy Transition Roadmap” engagement
(2) https://ec.europa.eu/transparencyregister/public/consultation/displaylobbyist.do?id=6256831207-27&locale=en#en, number 6256831207-27. By registe-
ring, Enel signed the Transparency Register Code of Conduct, and also declared that it is bound by its own Code of Ethics.
platforms, Enel engages with a wide range of stakeholders based on Cap and Trade systems should be preferred
on the definition and implementation of the actions needed in industrialized economies and industrial sectors where
to pursue the Paris Agreement goals. These platforms take operators can effectively manage and internalize the
decarbonization by 2050 as a starting point, then proceed price signals recorded on the market in their deci-
to identify the technology mix needed to reach this and the sion-making processes. Conversely, carbon-pricing
medium-term goal for 2030, and to develop specific policy mechanisms should tend to take the form of carbon
recommendations aimed at achieving this transformation. taxes in countries with weaker institutions and in sec-
tors characterized by distributed emission sources, and
where non-economic barriers are significant. The Enel
The Group’s positioning on the
Group strongly supports carbon pricing as a means to
main climate policies decarbonize economic systems efficiently and effective-
ly around the world. Enel’s positions on the adoption of
carbon pricing are conveyed both directly and through
During 2022, several regulatory and legislative events took participation in the activities of organizations such as
place, both specific to the climate and concerning energy IETA, CPLC, Eurelectric and WBCSD. In 2022, specific ac-
and environmental issues related to it. tivities were dedicated and aimed at analyzing and pro-
The number of dossiers on which Enel focuses its advoca- moting carbon pricing, at global, regional (EU and Latin
cy increases annually and, in particular, our main positions America) and national (EU member states, Brazil, Argen-
are as follows: tina, Chile, Guatemala, Panama, Costa Rica, Colombia
and Peru) levels.
Globally:
At European level:
•
as part of the United Nations Framework Convention
•
on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Enel has been active in The European Green Deal, together with recent accel-
promoting greater ambition in the implementation of eration as a result of the REPowerEU plan to reduce Eu-
the Transparency Governance Framework, in the full rope’s energy dependence, represents for Enel a unique
mobilization of carbon finance envisaged by the Paris opportunity to accelerate the EU’s path to a fully de-
Agreement, together with rapid development of inter- carbonized and sustainable economy, especially when
national cooperation envisaged by Article 6 of the same aligned with the mobilization of significant resources
Agreement. In this sense, Enel also played an active to ensure a rapid recovery from the ongoing crises. For
role during the various preparatory events for COP 27 Enel, the EU’s climate and environmental goals require a
in Sharm el-Sheikh. In particular, Enel has asked: to ef- new industrial strategy to reach climate neutrality, and
ficiently accelerate the energy transition by guiding the an action plan for the circular economy, pursuing the
world’s economies on the path to Net-Zero, as recalled decarbonization of each sector. The energy sector must
by the latest IPCC Report; to prepare the stocktaking aim to be fully decarbonized ahead of other sectors, as
planned for COP 28; to catch up in mobilizing finance to such ensuring decarbonization through direct and in-
support mitigation and adaptation in developing coun- direct electrification. For example, the study “Powering
tries; finalizing the implementing provisions of Article 6 our buildings: how policies can support energy efficien-
on cooperation in terms of climate change; cy through building electrification”, developed together
with FIRE (Italian Federation for the Rational Use of Ener-
•
Enel promotes greater climate ambition in line with the gy) and IEECP (Institute for European Energy and Climate
Paris Agreement, in a just transition framework. Enel’s Policy), addresses energy improvement and decarbon-
advocacy in this area is implemented through ad hoc ization of the building sector;
engagement on specific legislative proposals (e.g. the
•
European Climate Law), but also through broader stake- Enel has supported EU proposals for reform of the Emis-
holder engagement at national level through Enel’s En- sions Trading System (ETS), which must be strength-
ergy Transition Roadmap platform (see above). Through ened to pursue the EU’s higher climate ambition and
such platforms, Enel promotes NDCs (Nationally Deter- supported by a Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism.
mined Contributions) that fully reflect the highest possi- The revision of the ETS Directive is in line with Enel’s po-
ble climate ambition and are fully in line with the require- sitioning. The overall ambition of the scheme has been
ments of the Paris Agreement; reinforced with a target of reducing emissions by 62%
by 2030 compared to 2005 levels. The EU ETS has been
•
Enel has strongly promoted carbon pricing in the form extended to new activities in hydrogen production and
of both carbon tax and emissions trading. In particular, maritime transport. A separate ETS for transport and for
Enel believes that the adoption of these mechanisms the heating of buildings has been launched with differ-
ent clauses to ensure their sustainability with a view to drogen). In this regard, low carbon fuels should be ex-
a just transition. The functioning of the market has cluded from the scope of this Directive. Enel believes
been improved through a revision of the Market Sta- that the EU regulatory framework should provide long-
bility Reserve (MSR), aimed at increasing price stability term predictability for investors, as well as simplified
and balancing any surplus allowances on the ETS mar- and standardized authorization procedures. Finally,
ket. Finally, the revision of the EU ETS has taken place Enel supports a technology-neutral approach that at
alongside the adoption of the Carbon Border Adjust- the same time creates the necessary conditions for
ment Mechanism to provide greater climate ambition the penetration of fully sustainable technologies;
while reducing the risks of carbon leakage;
•
as part of the European Commission’s hydrogen strat-
•
Enel has supported a revision of the Effort Sharing egy, the Enel Group actively promotes green hydrogen
regulation that fully exploits the decarbonization po- (generated by electrolysis powered by 100% renew-
tential of energy end-uses in the EU’s increased cli- able energy). Enel believes that this is the only truly
mate ambition. The review aimed to update the Effort sustainable generation pathway for hydrogen, pow-
Sharing Regulation (ESR) targets of individual member ered by renewable sources with zero greenhouse gas
States in an upwards direction, in line with the high- emissions. Hydrogen is best used as a complement to
er ambition of 2030. The ambition also needed to electrification, not as a competitor. It has an efficient
be aligned with 2050 climate neutrality, to avoid the role in decarbonizing those parts of the economy that
technological lock-in of emitting technologies and in- cannot be electrified easily or economically, for ex-
frastructure. However, the impact on prices and ener- ample, hard-to-abate sectors such as heavy industry,
gy bills must be carefully managed when adopting the aviation and shipping. In addition, Enel participated in
recently revised regulation; 2022, together with many other multinationals, in two
different working groups within the “Energy Pathway”
•
Enel has welcomed the publication of the hydrogen project promoted by WBCSD, with the aim of par-
and gas market decarbonization package by the Eu- ticipating in the discussion on how to stimulate the
ropean Commission. The package also includes the development of projects and, at the same time, the
proposed regulation on reducing methane emissions hydrogen market;
throughout the value chain in the energy sector and
•
introduces new requirements for measuring, re- as part of its smart and sustainable mobility strategy,
porting and verifying emissions, as well as emission the Enel Group is actively promoting e-mobility as a
abatement measures. In addition, the regulation also key factor in reducing road transport emissions and
proposes rules to increase transparency on methane contributing to the achievement of EU energy effi-
emissions associated with fossil fuel imports; ciency targets. Since 2011, the EU has been involved
in the process of updating its transport policy frame-
•
Enel supports the European Commission’s proposal on work to reduce emissions in this sector, particularly
an upward revision of the EU’s 2030 energy efficien- road transport. Mobility is a critical aspect of social
cy target to at least 36% for final energy consump- inclusion and a determining factor in human well-be-
tion and at least 39% for primary energy consump- ing, especially for disadvantaged groups. Recognized
tion to achieve the ambition of reducing greenhouse as an essential service in the European pillar of social
gas emissions by 2030. Significant energy efficiency rights, transport meets a fundamental need in en-
improvements are needed to achieve the Net-Zero abling citizens to integrate into society and the labor
emissions target by 2050. As such, the proposed revi- market. By far the most serious challenge facing the
sion of the Directive, as part of the “Delivering on the transport sector is to reduce its emissions significant-
European Green Deal” package, raises the level of am- ly and become more sustainable. The European Green
bition of the EU’s energy efficiency target and makes Deal calls for a 90% reduction in GHG emissions from
it binding; transport so that the EU can become a climate neutral
economy by 2050, including working towards a zero
•
Enel welcomes the Commission’s initiative to review pollution ambition. In addition, in 2021 the European
the Renewable Energy Directive and increase its am- Commission unveiled the “EU Urban Mobility Frame-
bitiousness. It believes that the main contributions to work”, complementing the proposed revised guide-
efficient decarbonization of the energy sector, as well lines for the Trans-European Network. The new EU
as buildings, heating and cooling, transportation and Urban Mobility Framework outlines a common list of
industry, will come from further end-use electrifica- measures and initiatives for with which EU cities can
tion (direct and indirect electrification for sectors that address the challenge of making their mobility more
are difficult to abate emissions by means of green hy- sustainable. Finally, in 2022 Enel participated in the
Mobility Decarbonization working group promoted by In the USA and Canada, the main dossiers on which the
WBCSD, with the aim of encouraging the decarbon- Enel Group has taken action with advocacy actions include:
ization of road transport, facilitating the development
•
of new technologies for zero-emission vehicles and the US Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), aimed at incentiv-
the creation of new charging infrastructure; izing the deployment and generation of clean energy
technologies. The law is expected to provide new incen-
•
Enel fully supports the European building renovation tives for clean energy and facilitate a 40% reduction in
strategy and actively participates in discussions on the the US economy’s greenhouse gas emissions by 2030.
proposed review of the Energy Performance of Build- Enel has supported the IRA, presenting its assessments
ings Directive. The building sector is one of the most to Congress and working with trade associations to in-
lagging industries as regards decarbonization due to form and model the design elements of policies within
criticalities in the value chain, in building efficiency, and the law;
in choice of energy source. Enel believes it can contrib-
•
ute substantially to the decarbonization of the build- the US Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act (UFLPA), the
ing sector by installing efficient electrical technologies impact of which has been particularly significant on im-
such as heat pumps, charging infrastructure for mo- ports from the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region in
bility and solar panels on roofs, improving building ef- China. In June 2022, the provisions for major solar en-
ficiency through electrification and digitalization, mak- ergy importers came into force. Enel has supported the
ing buildings dynamic elements of the energy system sector’s action to develop supply chain traceability pro-
through storage, remodeling of demand, and electric grams and, with trade associations, has opposed any
vehicle charging; presence of forced labor in supply chains, in line with the
public commitment made in this regard through the hu-
•
Enel has involved various stakeholders in the Europe- man rights policy;
an Commission’s New Circular Economy Action Plan,
•
stressing the importance of ensuring the circularity of in California, the mobilization of financing for distributed
the main supply chains, particularly in relation to elec- generation and resilience: funds have been allocated to
tric vehicles, batteries and renewable energy technolo- support resources (generation and storage) distributed
gies. Furthermore, Enel’s advocacy has highlighted the at low/zero emissions, but also for demand management
need to develop appropriate circular economy metrics on electricity grids. In addition, a commitment has been
and to focus on the high potential of urban environ- made to accelerate the electrification of transport. Enel
ments through the implementation of a clear vision of has supported the allocation of these funds and met and
circular smart cities; provided its assessments to the legislature, working with
trade associations;
•
within the framework of the Zero Pollution dossier and
•
other environmental dossiers, the Enel Group is actively the Massachusetts Climate Bill enacted in August 2022,
promoting the maximization of synergies between de- which aims to promote a 50% reduction in emissions
carbonization and other environmental policies. In this compared to 1990 by 2030. The law includes a target
context, synergies of climate and air quality policies are of developing energy storage of 1 GWh by 2025 and
perhaps the most critical, and electricity technologies requires all new sales of passenger vehicles to be ze-
can play a key role in combating climate change, im- ro-emission by 2035. There are also discounts for the
proving local air quality and increasing the circularity of sale of electric vehicles and incremental incentives for
the EU’s economic system. The revision of the Air Qual- low-income buyers. Enel has supported the legislation
ity Directive, proposed by the Commission in 2022, has and has met and provided targeted evaluations to the
proved crucial to strengthen the role that clean tech- legislature, working with trade associations;
nologies can play in improving air quality for European
•
citizens. Soil management is vital for a circular econo- the increase in the carbon price in Alberta, with a carbon
my that aims to develop sustainable models capable of price trajectory to 2026 aligned with the forecasts of the
encouraging the coexistence of different activities and Canadian Federal Government. Starting January 1, 2023,
creating synergies and mutual benefits, such as agri- the federal carbon price will increase from CAD 50 to
voltaics. The new soil strategy published in November 65 per ton of GHG emissions, with subsequent annual
2022 is a step in the right direction. However, its scope increases bringing the tax to CAD 170 per ton by 2030.
should also be extended to the redevelopment of Enel has supported the pricing trajectory and has met
brownfield sites and the reuse of brownfields to avoid directly with government officials and representatives,
further land acquisition and soil pollution. working with trade associations.
In Latin America, the main dossiers on which the Enel in order to facilitate and ensure the implementation of
Group has taken action with advocacy actions include: the NDC. Enel supported the promulgation of the Decree
and promoted a collaboration network to support the
•
in Peru, the Supreme Decree 003-2022-MINAM, which dissemination and awareness of the results, providing
declares the climate emergency of national interest and the recommendations that emerged from the Energy
provides for the actions to be taken by the various min- Transition Roadmap project carried out in the country;
istries, with the aim of reducing emissions to achieve
•
the NDC objectives under the Paris Agreement. In this in Guatemala, the development of an NDC, which envis-
sense, the country has committed to accelerate the pro- ages reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 11.2% by
cess of reducing emissions compared to the 2030 trend 2030 compared to the baseline scenario, as a target not
scenario to 30%, for the unconditional target of its NDC, conditional on international support. In 2022, Enel also
to 40% in the case of a conditional target. It has also worked in Guatemala on an energy transition roadmap
committed to achieving carbon neutrality by 2050. Enel for the country with the aim of proposing scenarios that
has supported the strengthening of the Peruvian NDC will enable it to comply with the commitments made in
(Nationally Determined Contribution), which will increase the NDC;
the development possibilities of renewable companies,
•
and worked in 2022 on the Energy Transition Roadmap in Argentina, the decision to maintain the commitment
project in Peru together with the consulting firm Deloitte, made in the NDC 2020, ratifying the commitment to
as well as with public and private stakeholders; reduce emissions by 27.7% by 2030, compared to the
first NDC presented in 2016. Also in this case, as in other
•
in Colombia, the Climate Action Act, which aims to reg- countries, Enel has promoted advocacy actions with the
ulate the objectives of the NDC and some other aspects, development of the Energy Transition Roadmap project.
such as greenhouse gas inventories for the country’s Enel also promoted the adoption of Resolution no. 370
industrial sector. Enel has also promoted the adoption of 2022, which provides for a mechanism for the sale of
of the law through a special project, Energy Transition electricity from renewable sources for distributors of the
Roadmap, implemented with the support of the consult- Wholesale Electricity Market (MEM) through the Renew-
ing firm CREE and in collaboration with public and pri- able Energy Forward Market (MATER);
vate stakeholders;
•
in Chile, Enel implemented advocacy activities in support
•
also in Colombia, Resolution 172, approved in 2022, es- of the adoption of Law no. 21,455. This piece of legisla-
tablishing the Presidential Cabinet Intersectoral Com- tion aims to address the challenges of climate change
mission on Climate Action. Enel has promoted the es- in the country and establishes climate governance
tablishment of the Commission that will be tasked with mechanisms, setting the goal of carbon neutrality to be
verifying the country’s progress and requirements re- achieved by 2050 at the latest. Enel’s vision is aligned
garding the implementation of measures aimed at re- with the law. This is also the background to Enel’s deci-
specting the international obligations acquired by the sion to exit coal-fired generation in the country, which
State in terms of climate action; ended in September 2022 with the closure of the Bo-
camina II plant;
•
in Costa Rica in September 2022, the Ministry of Environ-
•
ment and Energy published the Regulation of Chapter III again in Chile, in June 2022, the Ministry of Economy,
of Law No. 9518 on Incentives and Promotion of Electric Development and Tourism implemented Council Agree-
Transport, which regulates the application of temporary ment No. 3121 of 2022, which creates the “Committee
tax incentives for electric vehicles, as well as a temporary for the Development of the Green Hydrogen Industry”
exemption from property tax for electric vehicles. Enel and establishes the rules that will govern its operation.
supported the publication of the law and promoted it, The Committee’s objective will be to accelerate the sus-
including through the Energy Transition Roadmap proj- tainable development of this industry by supporting the
ect, carried out with the support of the consulting firm national strategy for green hydrogen. Enel has actively
Deloitte and in collaboration with public and/or private participated with several key players in the development
stakeholders; of green hydrogen in the country and, moreover, has
contributed to the public debate with the Energy Transi-
•
in Panama, the approval of Decree-Law No. 10, which tion Roadmap project together with the consulting firm
adopts the National Climate Action Plan (PNAC). The Plan energiE, in collaboration with public and private stake-
is seen as a crucial tool in promoting short- and long- holders;
term national and sectoral ambitions of climate policies,
•
in Brazil, Enel promoted the publication of Decree No. structured manner are recognized as one of the best
11,075. It defines the procedures for the Sectoral Plans support mechanisms for the development of renewable
for Climate Change Mitigation and creates the National energy;
Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction System (SINARE),
•
in order to establish emission reduction targets for com- also in South Korea, the 10th Basic Plan for Electricity
pliance with the national NDC. In addition, Resolution no. Supply and Demand has been finalized. It envisages that
6 of June 2022 of the National Energy Policy Council the national generation mix to 2036 will be dominated
establishes the National Hydrogen Program (PNH2) and by nuclear and renewables, with a gradually decreasing
creates a Committee with the aim of coordinating and role for fossil fuels. Hydrogen and ammonia will be used
supervising the planning and implementation of the in LNG and coal-fired power plants to reduce emissions.
PNH2. Enel has also supported the strengthening of cli- In this context, Enel has supported the development of
mate ambition envisaged by Brazil’s second NDC update. renewable energy, but considers it inefficient to use hy-
This strengthening aims to increase emissions reduc- drogen to produce electricity;
tions by up to 50% by 2030 and achieve greenhouse gas
•
neutrality by 2050. Enel has positively assessed these in Vietnam, Enel promoted the finalization of a new and
developments, which will increase the possibilities of more ambitious NDC and, in particular, the strengthen-
development of renewable companies. It has supported ing of the unconditional objective of reducing green-
legislative action with the Energy Transition Roadmap house gas emissions by 15.8% by 2030 compared to a
project carried out with the support of Deloitte and in business-as-usual scenario of the reference year 2010.
collaboration with public and private stakeholders. Subject to international support and financing, the 2030
reduction target has been raised to 43.5%. In this con-
On the African continent, the main climate dossiers on text, the country also reiterated its goal of achieving car-
which Enel has carried out advocacy activities are: bon neutrality by 2050. Enel supported this decision as
it will accelerate the decarbonization of Vietnam by of-
•
in South Africa, the Climate Change Act, which creates fering development opportunities for renewable sources
a regulatory framework that will enable an effective re- and end-use electrification;
sponse to climate change and a long-term transition to
•
a low-carbon economy. The provisions of this law are in in Australia, the Enel Group supported the plans of the
line with the Enel Group’s operational objectives for re- new Federal Labor Government, aimed at mobilizing new
newable development in South Africa; financing for the expansion of the transmission grid and
the establishment of a program to attract greater invest-
•
in Morocco, Enel has promoted the adoption of a new law ments in the renewable energy sector;
aimed at regulating the production of its own electricity,
•
while guaranteeing the security of the national network In India, ancillary services regulations have been adopt-
and compliance with the principles of transparency and ed, establishing the introduction of Secondary Reserve
non-discrimination between the various market players. Ancillary Services (SRAS) and Tertiary Reserve Ancillary
For the first time, the law also provides for the right of Services (TRAS). The regulations allow all types of tech-
access to electricity storage services, as well as the right nology to provide SRAS and TRAS, including battery
to sell the excess to the TSO. energy storage systems (BESS). Enel is in favor of these
regulations and believes that they encourage the devel-
In the Asia Pacific region, the main dossiers on which opment of renewable sources and distributed storage;
Enel’s advocacy actions have focused are:
•
India’s Ministry of Energy has also issued the Green Ener-
•
in South Korea, the opening of the Power Purchase gy Open Access Rules. The objective of this regulation is
Agreement (PPA) market. It enables renewable genera- to increase the availability and use of renewable energy
tors to sell electricity directly to end users. Enel sees this and to promote the growth of the sale of energy from
initiative as a significant step towards the development renewable sources with open access. Enel welcomed the
and use of renewable energy. In addition, the first auc- enactment of this regulation as it believes that it fosters
tion program dedicated to onshore and offshore wind new opportunities for the development of renewable
has been launched. Enel also supported this legislative sources.
initiative as auctions conducted in a transparent and
•
In addition to the direct advocacy activities, Enel is ac- strengthening commitments to Sustainable Deve-
tively contributing to the debate on how best to address lopment Goal 7 through the Energy Compacts (EC)
the challenge of climate change through specific initia- promoted by UN-Energy and SEforALL. Compacts are
tives. In 2022, these included: voluntary commitments by companies, governments
and other stakeholders to accelerate action for univer-
•
the GSEP (Global Sustainable Electricity Partnership) sal access to clean and affordable energy for all. In this
Global Electrification Monitor, aimed at illustrating the context, the Group announced Enel Chile’s new Energy
state of the art of decarbonization of energy end-uses Compact, promoted in collaboration with the Universi-
through electrification. The initiative was launched du- dad del Desarrollo and the Government of the Santiago
ring the annual GSEP CEO Summit held in 2022 in Mar- Metropolitan Region, which aims to electrify the entire
rakech. Through the use of specific indicators for the bus fleet by 2030 and expand the network of charging
15 countries analyzed, it highlights to what extent the stations for electric vehicles, both public and private;
penetration of electrification in end-uses is in line with
•
the International Energy Agency’s scenarios for achie- participation in a number of specific advocacy initia-
ving the objectives set by the Paris Agreement. Also tives, through letters and appeals developed under ad
in this context, GSEP hosted a High-Level Dialogue on hoc alliances. For example, the Enel Group, together
electrification during New York Climate Week 2022. In with over 150 business leaders, has signed an open
this context, 14 companies have signed the Catalyzing letter by CLG Europe to the President of the European
Electrification agreement, to accelerate electrification Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, to invite the EU to
of energy end-uses, aimed at reducing greenhouse ga- strengthen energy security by accelerating the green
ses; transition through the REPowerEU plan. In addition,
Enel has participated in lobbying activities in support of
•
development and collaboration on several Energy the 100 gCO /kWh threshold – published in the Dele-
2
Transition Roadmap projects, to stimulate debate on gated Acts of the European Taxonomy – which allows
how best to accelerate the reduction of greenhouse an activity to be defined as environmentally sustainable
gas emissions. In this context, in Europe Enel collabo- if its CO emissions are below this threshold. Enel not
2
rated with the Enel Foundation and Ambrosetti on the only supports compliance with this threshold, but also
Energy Transition Roadmaps for Italy and Spain and asks to specify how this threshold should be reduced
supported Eurelectric in the work to define the new over time until it reaches zero by 2050. Finally, throu-
decarbonization roadmap for Europe. In Latin Ameri- gh the We Mean Business Coalition, the Group signed
ca, Enel has completed Energy Transition Roadmap a declaration during COP 27, together with over 270
projects in several countries, including Chile, Brazil, companies and civil society leaders, reaffirming its
Peru, Panama and Costa Rica. In several cases, the re- commitment to limit global warming to 1.5 °C, while en-
sults of these projects were presented and discussed in suring a just transition and a fair and inclusive future for
the context of COP 27 events; all, and calling on governments to maintain it as a goal
during the negotiations.
Enel’s commitment to fight
enel-com/documenti/investitori/sostenibilita/2022/enel-en-
against climate change through gagement-associations-involved-climate-policy-advocacy.
pdf) was also published for 2022, including the assessment,
associations and organizations
for each of them, of the alignment with the Paris Agreement.
This alignment was carried out on the basis of a specific
2-28 methodology using targeted evaluations on the science of
climate change, climate policies at global and national level,
The Group plays an active role in various industry and disclosures on the topic, and technologies proposed.
multi-stakeholder associations and organizations with the In particular, in 2022, the Enel Group identified for each
aim of promoting issues concerning energy transition and country and/or region of presence and/or interest the
the commitment to fight climate change at national and main associations involved in advocacy activities of climate
global level. Enel is committed to ensuring that the var- policies and conducted, for each of them, a qualitative
ious industry associations, business networks and think assessment in order to identify the association’s level of
tanks of which it is a member operate in full compliance alignment with the Paris Agreement. This assessment was
with the objectives of the Paris Agreement and the de- carried out on the basis of six main dimensions:
carbonization roadmap established by the Group. Enel i. Climate Science – the extent to which the association
therefore systematically verifies the consistency of the involves itself in the issues related to climate change
associations’ positions with the climate policies shared and in the results and evidence of the Reports publi-
at the Group level. This verification process is carried out shed by the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
in two stages: (i) before joining the association, through Change);
an in-depth analysis of the body’s by-laws, in line with the ii. Climate Policy – the extent to which the association
Climate Policy issued in September 2021; (ii) after joining supports the UNFCCC process and other global policy
the association, by actively contributing to its work and/or initiatives;
taking positions of responsibility within it or promoting the iii. Carbon Pricing Climate Policies – the extent to which
Enel Group’s position within working groups. the association supports Carbon Pricing (Carbon Tax,
Finally, a review of the level of alignment of the associa- Emissions Trading);
tions with Enel’s strategy is conducted annually. iv. Non Carbon Pricing Climate Policy – the extent to whi-
Where an association is found not to be in line with the ob- ch the association supports other types of climate poli-
jectives of the Paris Agreement and Enel’s climate risk mit- cies related to energy efficiency, renewable energy and
igation strategy, the Company assesses whether the mis- GHG regulation;
alignment could compromise the effectiveness of Enel’s v. Communication – the extent to which the association
advocacy and participation, and may eventually decide to communicates on climate issues;
withdraw from the association. vi. Energy Transition & Zero Carbon Technologies – the ex-
By way of example, in recent years we have withdrawn our tent to which the association supports innovative and ef-
participation from some associations whose views on cli- fective technologies in the fight against climate change.
mate policies and how to achieve the energy transition
were persistently different from Enel’s in terms of fighting The methodology developed by Enel for assessing the
climate change and pursuing the goals set forth in the Paris alignment of associations to the Paris Agreement provides,
Agreement. On the other hand, it may happen that in some in particular, that to each of the six dimensions listed above
associations, despite the existence of a misalignment, Enel is assigned a level of alignment (high, medium or low). Then,
decides to continue to be a member with the aim of in- a numerical score is given to each of the dimensions, which
fluencing and aligning association decisions with its own reflects the level of alignment assigned. The average of the
vision of achieving the targets set by the Paris Agreement. scores of the six dimensions generates the final result of
alignment of the association to the Paris Agreement, which
Back in 2020, an initial selection of the main industrial as- can be: high, medium/high, medium, medium/low or low.
sociations and organizations was carried out to identify
alignment with Enel’s climate position, an activity that con- In general, Enel believes that the most effective approach
tinued in 2021. when an association is not aligned with the Paris Agreement
is to remain in such association with the aim of orienting and
In 2022, the analysis for assessing alignment with the Paris aligning its decisions with Enel’s own vision of achieving the
Agreement was extended to cover all associations involved targets set by the Paris Agreement. However, in those cases
in climate advocacy activities, of which Enel is a global mem- where the yearly assessment of the level of alignment with
ber. In addition, as in 2021, the list of the main associations the Paris Agreement for an association result to be “low”,
most involved in climate advocacy activities with which Enel then Enel will activate an escalation strategy encompassing
collaborates worldwide (https://www.enel.com/content/dam/ the following steps:
•
Step 1: raise the issue, within the association, of the lack view of industry associations, conducted during 2022, ac-
of alignment to the Paris Agreement to initiate an in-dep- cording to the methodology of assessment of alignment
th discussion with the aim of improving the alignment. with the Paris Agreement as set out above. In particular,
•
Step 2: if, despite of the measures described in Step 1, the for each association listed, the following information is re-
assessment of the level of alignment to the Paris Agre- ported: (i) brief description of the association; (ii) main ac-
ement still results to be “low” for two consecutive years, tions taken by the association in 2022 and its assessment
then the issue will be brought to the attention of the CEO, of alignment with the Paris Agreement; (iii) Enel’s main roles
who will assess possible counteractions which may also within the association; (iv) Enel’s main actions developed in
include the decision for Enel to leave the association. 2022 within the association.
The following table summarizes the main results of the re-
Main actions undertaken by the
association in 2022 and level
Industry of alignment with the Paris Enel’s main roles within Main actions taken by Enel
association Description Agreement the association within the association in 2022
Eurelectric The Union of the Electricity Eurelectric contributes to the Enel is well represented in the In 2022, Eurelectric contributed to
Industry - Eurelectric is the development and competitiveness association, with more than two major studies:
sector association which of the electricity industry, 40 delegates from Group • M arket Design, developed by
represents the common provides effective representation companies in Italy, Spain and Compass Lexecon (expected
interests of the electricity of the industry in public affairs Romania holding key positions publication date: March 2023);
industry at pan-European and promotes the role of a within the association (at • D ecarbonization speedways,
level, plus its affiliates and low-carbon electricity mix. The decision-making level and in which analyzes the EU’s path
associates on several other level of alignment with the Paris the Committees, such as the towards carbon neutrality by
continents. The association Agreement was deemed “high”. Electrification and Sustainability 2050.
counts over 34 full members, Committee or the Sustainability Enel actively contributed to both
representing over 3,500 Working Group). initiatives, providing know-how,
companies in Europe. content and resources.
Earlier this year, Eurelectric
launched a report – co-produced
with EY – at the EVision event,
focusing on how electric vehicles
and charging stations can become
an asset for the networks that
support them. The Head of Global
e-Mobility at Enel X Way, spoke
at the session “Ensuring the
right regulatory framework for
accelerating electric mobility”.
During the Power Summit 2022,
Enel participated by organizing a
session on Market Design.
During the year, Enel helped
support the development of
Eurelectric’s positions and
advocacy actions on the Fit for 55
package.
In 2022, Enel continued to serve
as Chair of the Electrification
and Sustainability Committee,
Eurelectric’s key committee
for discussing and deciding on
electrification, energy efficiency
policies, and sustainability,
including decarbonizing the
economy beyond the power
sector, one of the core themes of
Eurelectric’s vision.
Main actions undertaken by the
association in 2022 and level
Industry of alignment with the Paris Enel’s main roles within Main actions taken by Enel
association Description Agreement the association within the association in 2022
WindEurope WindEurope is the voice of Through effective communication Enel has participated in the During 2022, Enel collaborated
companies and organizations and engagement in policy-making association as a member of with WindEurope in the European
operating in the wind processes, WindEurope facilitates the Board and as Chair of the Parliament and Council on
industry. It actively promotes national and international policies Working Group Market and the provisions of the “Fit for
wind energy in Europe and and initiatives that strengthen the Investment Working Group; Enel 55” package and REPowerEU,
worldwide, has over 450 development of European and also participates with experts including in particular the
members and is active in global wind energy markets. The in all the association’s working revision of the Renewable Energy
over 40 countries. level of alignment with the Paris groups. Directive. Enel has strengthened
Agreement was deemed “high”. its presence in the association,
especially on the priorities of
electrification and in the debate
on market design. Enel has
participated in the main events
organized by the association
and has contributed to the major
publications, reports and public
letters issued by the association.
SolarPower Europe SolarPower Europe Among the objectives of the During 2022, Enel’s presence During 2022, Enel collaborated
represents organizations association is the successful was confirmed within the Board, with SolarPower Europe in the
active along the entire PV positioning of solar PV based the Advocacy Committee and European Parliament and Council
value chain, with the aim energy solutions in the European through the participation of on the provisions of the “Fit for
of defining the regulatory context through dedicated experts in 12 of the association’s 55” package and REPowerEU,
environment and improving studies and energy market 14 Workstreams. including in particular the
business opportunities for analysis. Through effective revision of the Renewable Energy
solar photovoltaics in Europe. communication and engagement Enel continued its work within Directive. Enel is strengthening
in policy-making processes, the Renewable Hydrogen and its presence in the association,
SolarPower Europe facilitates Electrification Workstream especially on generation priorities
national and international policies as Chair and Co-Chair of the and in the debate on market
and initiatives that strengthen the Industrial Strategy Workstream. design.
development of European and Enel has participated in the
global solar energy markets. association’s main events,
The level of alignment with the including the “CEOs Retreat” and
Paris Agreement was deemed the SolarPower Summit in April
“high”. 2022, the Sustainability Solar
Europe event in October 2022
and various initiatives, including
the sponsorship of the Solar
Stewardship Initiative (SSI).
The European EASE, located in Brussels, EASE promotes the role of storage Enel chairs the association. Enel has worked on numerous
Association for Belgium, is the leading in a decarbonized energy system. Enel is also active in the joint position papers and common
Storage of Energy member-supported The level of alignment with the Applications & Economics recommendations to address
(EASE) association representing Paris Agreement was deemed Working Group. specific regulatory challenges
organizations active across “high”. that could affect the storage
the entire energy storage value chain. In addition, it has
value chain. EASE supports collaborated with the association
the deployment of energy to respond to the EC’s numerous
storage to support the public consultations, for example
cost-effective transition to a the “Renewable Energy Projects –
resilient, climate-neutral, and Power Acquisition Processes and
secure energy system. Agreements” (April 2022). Enel
also contributed to the position
paper on the next market design
review (December 2022) and
was an exhibitor and sponsor at
the fifth “EASE Energy Storage
Global Conference” in October
2022. Several Enel representatives
attended the event to discuss the
latest developments on energy
storage technologies, regulatory
and policy frameworks, and the
future of the storage market.
Main actions undertaken by the
association in 2022 and level
Industry of alignment with the Paris Enel’s main roles within Main actions taken by Enel
association Description Agreement the association within the association in 2022
SmartEn SmartEn is the association SmartEn promotes the Enel’s presence at the top of In 2022, the President of the EU
of market players energy transition through the association’s structure DSO Entity (Enel’s e-distribuzione
promoting decentralized smart cooperation between was confirmed in 2022 with representative) joined the
and decarbonized power consumption, distribution, its re-election to the Board SmartEn Advisory Council
generation in favor of transmission and generation, and to the position of Chair of with the aim of bringing the
flexible demand for acting as an equal partner in an the Distributed Flexibility Task DSOs’ perspective on market
renewable energy sources. integrated energy system. The Force. Enel also participates with flexibility to the association.
level of alignment with the Paris experts in the Digital Agenda Enel has worked on numerous
Agreement was deemed “high”. and e-mobility working groups. position papers and shared
recommendations relating to the
energy efficiency of the system,
the empowerment of energy
users and the decarbonization
of the energy sector, proposing
the Group’s positioning on the
“Fit for 55” package. Finally,
Enel sponsored the event
on “Demand-Side Flexibility:
Quantification of Benefits in
the EU” (28 September 2022)
and participated as a speaker
at the event with two high-level
representatives.
RES4Africa RES4Africa brings together The “renewAfrica” initiative was Enel Green Power is one of the Participation in working groups,
a network of international officially launched at European funding partners and chairs the events, co-definition of work
leaders from across the level in 2019. It is a European association, with the current priorities, co-drafting of position
clean energy value chain initiative supported by multiple CEO of Enel Green Power taking papers.
and supports the creation stakeholders to accelerate the the role.
of an enabling environment transition to sustainable energy
for renewable energy in Africa. It promotes the creation
investments and strategic of a European program capable
partnerships. RES4Africa of catalyzing investment in
serves as a bridge between renewable energy for the future
members and partners sustainable development of
in emerging markets to the continent. RES4Africa is a
exchange perspectives and member of the Africa-Europe
expertise. Foundation, a platform launched
in 2021 by Friends of Europe
and the Mo Ibrahim Foundation
to facilitate multi-stakeholder
dialog, catalyze collaboration and
unlock new opportunities that
can transform dialog into action.
The level of alignment with the
Paris Agreement was deemed
“high”.
World Business The WBCSD is a global The WBCSD works to support Enel holds the role of Council In 2022, Enel actively participated
Council for organization led by the leading sustainability companies Member, through the CEO. in climate-related projects (for
Sustainable CEOs of more than 200 to drive integrated actions to example, Policy Advocacy and
Development international companies address global challenges through Member Mobilization, SOS 1.5,
(WBCSD) working together to the sharing of best practice and Energy Pathway and Mobility
accelerate the transition to the development of tools and Decarbonization), as well as
a Net-Zero, nature positive guides that can stimulate and contributing to the creation of
and more equitable future. advance members on their own position papers and publications.
pathway to sustainability. The
level of alignment with the Paris
Agreement was deemed “high”.
Main actions undertaken by the
association in 2022 and level
Industry of alignment with the Paris Enel’s main roles within Main actions taken by Enel
association Description Agreement the association within the association in 2022
United Nations The United Nations Global UNGC works to create a Enel co-chairs the CFO Coalition, The Group has participated in
Global Compact Compact is the largest global sustainable and inclusive and is also the Patron of the new working groups and meetings
(UNGC) corporate sustainability global economy by supporting Transformational Governance concerning, inter alia, the Just
initiative, created with companies to do business initiative. Transition Think Lab, as well as
the goal of promoting a responsibly, aligning strategies contributing to the creation of
sustainable economic model with the ten principles on human position papers and publications.
through the development rights, labor, environment and anti-
and implementation of corruption, as well as taking action
sustainable practices and to promote the goals of the 2030
policies. Agenda. The level of alignment
with the Paris Agreement was
deemed “high”.
American Clean American Clean Power (ACP) ACP focuses on US federal Enel holds a position on the Advocacy for federal legislation
Power Association is the voice of companies legislative and administrative Board of Directors of ACP. to accelerate the deployment
across the wind, solar, advocacy, while also supporting of wind, solar, energy storage,
storage, and transmission advocacy at State level. It supports transmission and green hydrogen
industries that are powering policies that will transform the technologies. Commitment to
America’s future and US power grid into a low-cost, collaborate with the association to
providing cost-effective reliable, renewable energy system, promote clean energy.
solutions to the climate crisis, including support for renewable
while creating jobs, spurring energy demand, sensible reforms,
massive investment in the permitting, transmission system
US economy, and driving construction, predictable
high-tech innovation across international trade rules, and
the nation. workforce development. The
level of alignment with the Paris
Agreement was deemed “high”.
Confindustria Confindustria is the main Development of workshops, In addition to holding important Advocacy activities for specific
association representing seminars and summary roles in local and national initiatives such as: preliminary
manufacturing and service documents including observations associations, Enel takes part in draft analysis of the “Operating
companies in Italy. Its and/or proposals suggested by various technical working groups Methods” relating to the draft
members include over the association regarding energy (most of all, the Energy and regulation governing the Waste
150,000 small, medium and environmental issues in local, Environment Working Groups), Traceability System and the
and large companies. national and European contexts. seeking to promote activities in National Electronic Register
Confindustria's mission is to The level of alignment with the line with climate targets. for Waste Traceability (RENTRI);
promote the development Paris Agreement was deemed analysis and submission of
of enterprises as the driving “medium/high”. comments on the proposal for an
force behind the country's EU regulation on F-gases; analysis
economic, social and civil and preparation of amendment on
growth. excavated earth and rocks in small
construction sites; contributions
for Confindustria positioning
documents on the public
consultation on the PNRR measure
on agrivoltaic.
Edison Electric The Edison Electric Institute EEI focuses on US federal Enel is a member of various Enel carries out federal lobbying
Institute (EEI) is the association that legislative and administrative working groups. activities in the United States
represents all investor-owned advocacy, while also supporting (legislative and administrative),
US electric utilities. advocacy at regional and State advocacy activities at the FERC
level. It works to encourage and at the ISO/RTOs, as well as
policies that support investor- direct and indirect State lobbying
owned private utilities, with a activities (through funding).
focus on decarbonization. The In addition, Enel supports greater
level of alignment with the Paris penetration of renewables for
Agreement was deemed “medium”. utilities.
Clean Energy The Clean Energy Council Its mission is to work with local, Enel is a key member with Participation in meetings,
Council (CEC) is the spearhead of State and Federal governments a strategic presence in committees and working groups.
the clean energy industry to solve technical, policy and important working groups
in Australia. It represents financial problems in the and committees, such as the
hundreds of leading challenges faced by the Policy and Advocacy Advisory
companies operating in the clean energy sector. The level Committee.
solar, wind, energy efficiency, of alignment with the Paris
hydro, bioenergy, energy Agreement was deemed “high”.
storage, geothermal and
marine sectors, along with
over 5,800 solar installers as
members.
Main actions undertaken by the
association in 2022 and level
Industry of alignment with the Paris Enel’s main roles within Main actions taken by Enel
association Description Agreement the association within the association in 2022
Solar Energy The Solar Energy Industries SEIA focuses on US Federal Enel is a member with a Active participation to promote
Industries Association (SEIA) is the legislative and administrative presence in several working large-scale solar power and
Association national trade association advocacy. It works to defend groups. address the critical issues in the
for the solar and solar + the interests of the solar energy sector.
storage industries. SEIA industry. The level of alignment
advocates policies that will with the Paris Agreement was
enable solar to reach 30% deemed “high”.
of US electricity generation
by 2030, to create jobs in
every community, and to
establish fair market rules
that promote competition
and the growth of reliable,
low-cost solar power.
International IETA is a non-profit IETA’s mission is to enable Enel holds a position on the Participation in dedicated high-
Emissions Trading corporate organization with companies to engage in climate Board of IETA, contributing to level workshops in European and
Association (IETA) more than 100 members action and establish effective help focus IETA’s attention on international forums on GHG
across companies, market-based trading systems for ensuring the truly sustainable markets and trading systems;
geographic areas and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. implementation of Emissions position papers supporting the
disciplines promoting the In pursuit of its mission, it aims Trading systems worldwide. Enel Group’s position on the EU ETS;
use of carbon trading as a to: a) promote an integrated view is also active in working groups promotion of market mechanisms
lever to pursue of carbon markets and prices; and task forces. and participation in GHG markets;
global climate ambition. b) participate in the design and engagement with Latin American
implementation of national and policy makers.
international rules and guidelines;
and c) provide up-to-date and
credible information on emission
trading. The level of alignment
with the Paris Agreement was
deemed “medium/high”.
Confederación CEOE is the national It represents and defends Spanish Endesa is a member of the Participation in various
Española de business association companies and entrepreneurs commission for industry, commissions where topical issues
Organizaciones representing and defending in economic, social and international relations, health at the European and Spanish level
Empresariales Spanish companies and taxation matters etc. before the and consumer affairs, and the are analyzed, and in several work
(CEOE) entrepreneurs. CEOE government, State agencies, finance economy. groups.
voluntarily integrates trade unions, political parties
two million companies and international institutions. It
and freelancers from analyzes laws and government
all business sectors. In proposals, and makes proposals
Europe, it is an active part on behalf of its members. The
of BusinessEurope, which level of alignment with the Paris
brings together European Agreement was deemed “high”.
business associations.
It actively supports the
international negotiation on
climate change, participating
in the process and assisting
the COP.
Kyoto Club Kyoto Club is a non- Development of documents, Enel is a member of the Joint working tables on renewables
profit organization, which position papers, workshops, Kyoto Club and participates development, specific advocacy
members are business training courses, campaigns and in round tables on renewable activities and policy proposals on
companies, associations projects aimed at professionals, development, energy efficiency, the energy transition.
and local municipalities and operators in the sector, public environmental education and
governments engaged in administrators and students resilience to climate change.
reaching the greenhouse concerning the latest issues in
gas reduction targets set the energy-environment sector,
by the Kyoto Protocol, by from renewables to e-mobility
the EU ones for 2030 and and the circular economy. The
by the December 2015 Paris level of alignment with the Paris
Agreement. Agreement was deemed “high”.
Main actions undertaken by the
association in 2022 and level
Industry of alignment with the Paris Enel’s main roles within Main actions taken by Enel
association Description Agreement the association within the association in 2022
Elettricità Futura Elettricità Futura is the main Elettricità Futura represents Enel is a shareholder in Elettricità Positioning on the European
association of Italian electric associates and their issues on Futura and actively participates Commission’s “Fit for 55”
utilities. It defends their institutional tables in Italy and in working groups and technical package; positioning on support
interests and creates value by Europe. It promotes networking tables. measures for renewable energy
supporting the sector in the among companies through communities; discussion tables on
energy transition process. meetings and initiatives on specific sustainable hydrogen.
topics, including working groups
and technical tables on energy
and energy transition issues. The
level of alignment with the Paris
Agreement was deemed “medium/
high”.
European Heat The European Heat Pump The EHPA supports, communicates Enel is a member of various Enel joined EHPA in 2022, sharing
Pump Association Association (EHPA) is the and provides expert political, committees and task forces, with the association the objectives
(EHPA) voice of the European heat technical and economic input and participates in a number of of electrification and achieving the
pump industry in Brussels. to European, national and local working groups. “Fit for 55” targets at European
The association works to authorities and its members. level.
define a European policy It organizes high-level events,
to enable the heat pump and manages and participates in
industry to thrive and several EU projects.
become the first choice for All its activities are aimed at
heating and cooling by 2030. accelerating the development of
the market for heat pumps for
heating, cooling and hot water
production. The level of alignment
with the Paris Agreement was
deemed “medium/high”.
Bettercoal Bettercoal is the During 2022, as members of Enel is a member of various Enel has promoted specific
internationally recognized Bettercoal within the working working groups and is sustainability issues with regard to
standard that works toward group dedicated to Colombia, represented on the association’s coal producers.
a responsible global coal we participated in the delegation Board.
supply chain. that traveled to Colombia, for
Bettercoal assesses coal the first time since 2018, with
producers according to the the aim of further improving the
three ESG – Environment, understanding of the critical
Social and Governance – issues surrounding coal mining
pillars, according to the in the country. We can therefore
criteria set out in its code of promote better relations with
conduct, and develops plans all stakeholders involved in this
for each company it assesses complex environment, from
to improve their business businesses to government and
practices. from international NGOs to local
Founded by a group of major communities. During the visit,
coal buyers, Bettercoal aims several meetings were organized
at constant improvements with about 64 stakeholders,
in sustainability practices in including business associations,
coal mining. communities and local
governments.
In addition, in 2022, following
the change in international
scenarios, a new working group
was established, dedicated
specifically to South Africa. The
level of alignment with the Paris
Agreement was deemed “high”.
Main actions undertaken by the
association in 2022 and level
Industry of alignment with the Paris Enel’s main roles within Main actions taken by Enel
association Description Agreement the association within the association in 2022
European Business The European Business EBC’s core mission is to foster Enel is a member of several Enel has participated in the
Council - Energy Council (EBC) currently a barrier-free business and committees and working drafting of a white paper on
Committee represents around 2,500 investment environment that groups. Demand Response.
European companies and makes doing business in Japan
individuals, which become less difficult and costly. The
its members of it through level of alignment with the Paris
their respective national Agreement was deemed “high”.
chambers of commerce
or business organizations.
Many of these companies
participate directly in one
or more of the EBC’s many
sectoral committees, whose
work covers a wide variety of
economic sectors.
The EBC consists of 22
sectoral committees, whose
work aims to improve the
local business environment
in a wide range of economic
sectors.
Red Argentina de The largest corporate social The association treats global Enel is a member of various Enel has actively participated in
Pacto Global responsibility initiative in goals as local issues, as the working groups and actively the debate and workshops on
the country, with over 900 cooperation of all stakeholders, participates in a number of climate and energy issues as
participants and a presence both public and private, in workshops. organized by the association.
in 20 provinces. Its goal is to every corner of the planet and
mobilize the business sector structured at global and local
and other stakeholders to levels, will be necessary to
commit to the 10 universal make substantial progress on
principles of the United the common and shared 2030
Nations and, consequently, Agenda. The local Network,
to undertake the purpose launched in 2004, currently has
of contributing to the a Board of Directors consisting
solution of the greatest of 34 members, whose mandate
challenges facing the planet is renewed every two years at
and humanity between now a Shareholders’ Meeting. The
and 2030: the Sustainable level of alignment with the Paris
Development Goals Agreement was deemed “high”.
approved by the United
Nations General Assembly in
September 2015.
For the full list of the main associations and the related as- sostenibilita/2022/enel-engagement-associations-in-
sessment, follow this link to the Enel website: https://www. volved-climate-policy-advocacy.pdf.
enel.com/content/dam/enel-com/documenti/investitori/
Enel’s governance model
to face climate change
2-9 2-12 2-13 2-19 2-20 2-21 2-24 TCFD: Governance
Competences
The corporate governance system adopted by Enel is ori-
of corporate bodies ented toward the goal of sustainable success, as it aims to
create value for shareholders over the long term, promote
awareness of the importance of the Enel Group’s operating
activities, from an environmental and social point of view,
and the consequent need to adequately consider the in-
terests of all the relevant stakeholders.
Chairman
Functions
Overseeing the climate
change strategy
Coordinating
the Board of Directors
Board of Chief Executive
Directors Officer
Functions
Developing and overseeing the sustainable
business model for guiding the energy
transition
Control and Risk
Committee
Corporate Governance Management
and Sustainability
level
Committee
Functions Holding Functions
Global Service Functions
Overseeing the
climate change Global Business Lines
strategy (risks, Regions and countries
planning and
disclosure)
Group Investments
Committee
Functions
Developing the Strategic Plan and measures
for managing the risks and opportunities
tied to climate change and the energy
transition
Functions
Approving investments that
align with Enel’s climate
change goals
The Board of Directors of Enel SpA: lated issues as part of the in-depth studies dedicated to
operations related to the decarbonization strategy and
•
Pursuant to the Articles of Association, the Board of Di- sustainable finance, as well as in relation to investor di-
rectors of Enel SpA is endowed with broad power for alog activities.
the ordinary and extraordinary administration of the
Company and has the authority to carry out any ac- In accordance with the provisions of the Italian Civil Code,
tion deemed appropriate for the implementation and the Board of Directors has delegated part of its manage-
achievement of the corporate purpose. ment responsibilities to the Chief Executive Officer and
•
It plays a central role in corporate governance as the based on the recommendations of the Italian Corporate
body vested with powers related to the strategic, or- Governance Code, and provided for under the relevant
ganizational and control policies of the Company and CONSOB regulations, has appointed the following Board
the Group, the sustainable success of which it pursues. Committees which provide recommendations and advice.
In this context, the Board examines and approves the
Company’s strategy, including the annual budget and
the Business Plan (which incorporate the main objectives The Corporate Governance and
and actions planned, including with regard to sustain- Sustainability Committee:
ability issues, to drive the energy transition and tackle
•
climate change), taking into consideration the analysis of Assists the Board of Directors in assessment and deci-
issues relevant to the generation of long-term value and sion-making activities concerning the Company’s and
thus promoting a sustainable business model. Group’s corporate governance and sustainability, in-
•
It plays a guidance role and provides an assessment of cluding climate change issues and the dynamics of the
the adequacy of the Internal Control and Risk Man- Company’s interaction with all the stakeholders.
•
agement System (so-called “ICRMS”). In this regard the With regard to sustainability issues, it examines, inter
Board defines the nature and level of risk compatible alia, (i) the guidelines of the Sustainability Plan, includ-
with the strategic objectives of the Company and the ing the climate objectives defined therein, as well as the
Group, including in its assessments any elements that Priorities’ Matrix, which identifies the priority issues for
may be relevant in the perspective of the Company’s stakeholders in light of the Group’s industrial strategies;
sustainable success. The ICRMS consists of the set of (ii) the methods for implementing the sustainability
rules, procedures and organizational structures aimed at policy; (iii) the general approach and structure of the
enabling the identification, measurement, management contents of the Non-Financial Statement and the Sus-
and monitoring of the main corporate risks, including tainability Report (possibly as a single document), as well
risks related to climate change and, more generally, risks as the completeness and transparency of the informa-
that the Group’s activities may determine in the fields of tion contained therein, including on climate change, and
environment society, personnel and human rights. their consistency with the principles laid down by the
•
The Board defines the remuneration policy for Direc- reporting standard used, issuing a prior opinion on this
tors, Auditors and Key management personnel, based matter to the Board of Directors called upon to approve
on the pursuit of the Company’s sustainable success these documents.
•
and considering the need to arrange, retain and moti- During 2022, the Board dealt with climate-related is-
vate people with the skills and professionalism required sues, reflected in the strategies and related implemen-
by the role covered, submitting this policy to the Share- tation methods in 3 of the 6 meetings held, in particular
holders’ Meeting for approval. during the review of: (i) the Sustainability Report for the
•
During 2022, the Board addressed climate-related is- 2021 financial year, coinciding with the Consolidated
sues, reflected in the strategies and related implemen- Non-Financial Statement pursuant to Legislative Decree
tation methods in 12 of the 16 meetings held, in partic- no. 254/2016 for the same year; (ii) the materiality anal-
ular during: (i) the review and approval of the Business ysis and the guidelines of the Sustainability Plan 2023-
Plan of the Company and the Group; (ii) the definition of 2025; (iii) updates on the main activities carried out in
Enel’s remuneration policy for 2022; (iii) the review of the 2022 by the Enel Group in the field of sustainability, on
contents of the Sustainability Report for the 2021 finan- the status of implementation of the Sustainability Plan
cial year, coinciding with the Consolidated Non-Financial 2022-2024 and regarding Enel’s inclusion in the main
Statement pursuant to Legislative Decree no. 254/2016 sustainability indices.
for the same year. In addition, it discussed climate-re-
The Control and Risk Committee: The Chairman of the Board of Directors:
• •
The Committee has the task of supporting the Board In exercising the function of stimulating and coordina-
of Directors’ assessments and decisions relating to ting the activities of the Board of Directors, plays a pro-
the ICRMS, also as concerns climate risks and those active role in the process of approving and monitoring
relating to the approval of periodic annual and interim corporate and sustainability strategies, which are stron-
financial and non-financial reports. gly oriented toward decarbonization and the electrifica-
•
It assesses the suitability of annual and interim finan- tion of consumption.
•
cial and non-financial information to represent cor- During 2022, the Chairman also chaired the Corporate
rectly the business model, the strategies of the Com- Governance and Sustainability Committee.
pany and the Group it heads, the impact of the Compa-
ny’s activities and achievements, coordinating with the
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee The Chief Executive Officer:
as regards periodic non-financial information.
• •
It examines the relevant issues for the purposes of In exercising the power he/she holds, the CEO has de-
the ICRMS dealt with in the Non-Financial Statement fined a sustainable business model by identifying a
and the Sustainability Report (possibly as a single doc- strategy targeted toward guiding the energy transition
ument) and containing the Company’s climate disclo- toward a low-carbon model; furthermore, within the
sure, issuing a prior opinion on the matter to the Board scope of the powers assigned, the CEO manages the
of Directors, which is called upon to approve these business activities connected to Enel’s commitment to
documents. combating climate change.
• •
During 2022, the Board dealt with climate-related is- He/she reports to the Board of Directors on the activi-
sues, reflected in the strategies and related implemen- ties carried out when exercising proxies, including the
tation methods in 8 of the 14 meetings held, in par- business activities aimed at maintaining Enel’s commit-
ticular during the review of: (i) assessment of the rel- ment to tackling climate change.
•
evant issues for the purposes of the ICRMS dealt with He/she represents Enel in various initiatives dealing
in the Sustainability Report for the 2021 financial year, with sustainability, holding relevant positions in insti-
coinciding with the Consolidated Non-Financial State- tutions of international importance such as the Global
ment pursuant to Legislative Decree no. 254/2016 for Investors for Sustainable Development (GISD) Alliance
the same year; (ii) the in-depth analysis of investor di- launched by the United Nations in 2019.
•
alog activities; (iii) meetings with the Heads of the Enel As the person primarily responsible for the management
Green Power and Thermal Generation and Enel Grids of the Company, he/she is the person most empowered
Global Business Lines and the Europe and North Amer- to deal with institutional investors, providing them with
ica Regions in relation to the activities carried out and any appropriate clarifications on matters falling within
the existing risks in the respective remits, and to the the management powers entrusted to him/her, in line
tools used to mitigate their effects; (iv) the analysis of with the Policy for the management of engagement with
the degree of compatibility of the main risks related to institutional investors and with the generality of Enel’s
the strategic objectives of the Business Plan. shareholders and bondholders.
•
He/she holds the role of Director in charge of setting up
and maintaining the ICRMS.
The Nomination and Compensation
Committee:
Enel’s organizational model
•
Supports the Board of Directors, inter alia, in its assess-
ments and decisions relating to the size and optimal Enel has a management team that assigns the responsi-
composition of the Board itself and its Committees, bilities related to climate issues to the specific Functions
as well as the remuneration of Directors and Key man- that contribute toward guiding Enel’s leadership in energy
agement personnel. In this regard, compensation policy transition. Each area is responsible for managing the risks
for 2022 specifies that a sizeable portion of the variable and opportunities related to climate change for their own
compensation, both short and long term, of the Chief area of competence.
Executive Officer/General Manager and Key manage-
•
ment personnel is connected, inter alia, to performance The Holding Functions are responsible for consolidating
objectives concerning sustainability and climate. the scenario analysis and the management of the stra-
tegic and financial planning process aimed at promoting Incentive system
the decarbonization of the energy mix and the electrifi-
cation of energy demand, as key actions in combating The remuneration policy for 2022 provides that a signifi-
climate change. cant portion of the short- and long-term variable remuner-
ation of the Chief Executive Officer/General Manager and
•
The Global Business Lines are responsible for the de- Key management personnel will be tied to performance
velopment of activities related to promoting renewable objectives concerning sustainability, including in relation
generation, the optimization of heat capacity, the dig- to climate change. Specifically, with regard to:
•
italization of the electricity grid and the development the long-term variable remuneration of the Chief Ex-
of business solutions that enable energy transition and ecutive Officer/General Manager and Key management
combating climate change. personnel, for which a performance objective is set,
including, since 2018, with regard to the reduction of
•
The Global Service Functions are responsible for adopt- “Scope 1” greenhouse gas emissions by the Enel Group
ing sustainable criteria, including climate change, in sup- over the next three years (with a weighting of 10% of the
ply chain management and developing digital solutions total long-term variable remuneration), deemed suitable
that support the development of technologies enabling to adequately support the achievement of the climate
energy transition and combating climate change. change-related targets in the 2022-2024 Strategic Plan;
•
variable short-term remuneration (MBO), the targets
•
On a local level, the Regions and Countries have the task can include those relating to the specific company
of promoting decarbonization and guiding the energy Function of each manager. For example, they include
transition toward a low-carbon business model, within objectives related to the introduction of innovative
their areas of responsibility. Furthermore, the Europe products and services into the business for managers
and Euro-Mediterranean Affairs Function is responsi- within Holding Functions, the development of renewable
ble for defining the Group’s position on climate change, energy for managers within the Enel Green Power and
low-carbon policies and the regulation of the interna- Thermal Generation Global Business Line or related to
tional carbon market on a European level. energy transition solutions within the Enel X Global Retail
Business Line.
Additionally, the Group Investments Committee, chaired
by the Chief Executive Officer, grants approval for the ex- For further details, see “The Enel governance model for
penses for investments related to business development. sustainability” section of the 2022 Sustainability Report.
This committee also has the task of guaranteeing that all
investments are fully in line with the Group’s commitment
to promoting a low-carbon business model and reaching
decarbonization by 2040.
Climate change
and long-term scenarios
3-3 201-2 TCFD: Strategy
The Enel Group develops short, medium and long-term common and transparent approach to using public sce-
scenarios for macroeconomic, financial, energy and cli- narios for companies in the energy industry, helping them
mate conditions in order to support its processes of plan- to use them in order to assess the risks and opportunities
ning, capital allocation, strategic positioning, and assess- associated with climate change, in line with the Task Force
ment of risks and resilience of the strategy. on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). The end
For this purpose, the analysis and benchmarking of exter- result of this work is: (i) a report that provides context for
nal energy transition scenarios was also carried out, which, the energy scenarios and describes the shared definition
together with the analysis of relevant reports on macro- of the scenario families, as well as (ii) an online platform
economic and commodity trends was a key starting point that gathers the variables of a variety of scenarios (WBCSD,
for defining the assumptions of Enel’s long-term energy 2023, Climate Scenario Analysis Reference Approach).
scenarios.
Enel’s long-term scenarios are based on an overall frame-
Global energy scenarios are typically classified by scenar- work so as to ensure consistency between the energy
io families based on the level of climate ambition: transition scenario and the physical climate scenario:
• •
Business as usual/Stated policies: energy scenarios the “energy transition scenario” describes how the gen-
based on business as usual/current policies. They pro- eration and consumption of energy evolves in various
vide a conservative benchmark for the future, represent- sectors in a specific economic, social, policy and regu-
ing the evolution of the energy system in the absence of latory context;
•
additional climate and energy policies. Currently, these issues concerning future trends in climate variables (in
scenarios do not achieve the goals of the Paris Agree- terms of frequency and intensity of acute and chronic
ment; phenomena) define the so-called “physical scenario”.
•
Paris Aligned: energy scenarios aligned with the Paris
Agreement, i.e., that include a goal of limiting global av- In order to assess the effects of transition and physical phe-
erage temperature increase to “well below 2 °C” com- nomena on the energy system, the Group relies on internal
pared to pre-industrial levels. To achieve this goal, sce- models that describe the energy system for each country
narios in this category consider new and more ambitious under analysis, taking into consideration specific techno-
policies for decarbonization, end-use electrification, logical, social-economic, policy and regulatory aspects.
and the development of renewables;
•
Paris Ambitious: global energy scenarios that chart the In 2022, with the aim of fostering global and local
path toward Net-Zero GHG emissions by 2050, in line cross-functional collaboration to define both physical
with the most ambitious goal of the Paris Agreement, and energy transition scenarios, while ensuring consis-
which is to stabilize the global average temperature rise tent compliance with the requirements of the TCFD, two
at 1.5 °C, although with different ranges of probability. internal cross-functional communities dedicated to both
physical and transition scenarios were established. These
This classification of scenario families was developed over were primarily intended to discuss and define context and
the years and was further expanded in 2021 by collaborat- benchmark analyses and long-term scenario assumptions,
ing with a working group coordinated by the World Busi- to identify relevant impact categories, and to establish
ness Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), which methods for assessing them so as to define strategic and
Enel took part in. The aim of the project was to devise a industrial measures.
The adoption of these scenarios and their integration into that translates the scenario phenomena into information
corporate processes takes account of the guidelines of that is useful for industrial and strategic decisions can be
the TCFD and enables the assessment of the risks and op- summarized in five steps:
portunities associated with climate change. The process
1
F I VE STEPS
Identification of trends and factors relevant to the business
(e.g., electrification of consumption, heat waves, etc.)
1
2
2
Development of link functions connecting climate/
transition scenarios and operating variables
Impact 3
5 assessment Identification of risks and
opportunities
3
4
Calculation of impacts on business
4 (e.g., change in performance, losses, capex)
5
Strategic actions: definition and implementation
(e.g., capital allocation, resilience plans)
Energy transition scenarios
The energy transition scenarios detail how the generation In 2022, Enel updated its framework of medium to long-
and consumption of energy evolve in a certain geopoliti- term energy transition scenarios, and defined scenario
cal, macroeconomic, regulatory and competitive context, narratives based on three main scenario “signposts”, that
depending on the available technology options; they cor- is, the main drivers of uncertainty in relation to develop-
relate with greenhouse gas emission trends and climate ments in the macroeconomic and energy sectors: achiev-
scenarios and, consequently, a specific temperature in- ing the Paris Agreement goals, the escalation of geopoliti-
crease by the end of the century compared to pre-indus- cal tensions in the Russia-Ukraine conflict, and tackling the
trial values. Covid-19 pandemic.
The main assumptions considered when defining transi- The Group’s reference scenario for long-term planning,
tion scenarios concern: called the Paris scenario, is therefore:
• •
local policies and regulatory measures to fight climate a Paris-aligned scenario, which involves achieving
change, increase energy security and promote sustain- the goals of the Paris Agreement, that is, a rise in the
able development, such as measures for reducing car- global average temperature below 2 °C compared
bon dioxide emissions and fossil fuel consumption, for to pre-industrial levels, and therefore anticipating a
increasing energy efficiency, for consumer electrifica- higher level of climate ambition than business as usu-
tion, and the amount of renewable electricity generated; al, but without necessarily assuming that the Net-Zero
•
the global macroeconomic and energy context (for ex- target will be reached by 2050, considering the cur-
ample, in terms of gross domestic product, population rent level of overall ambition at a global level;
•
and commodity prices), also considering international a scenario in which the geopolitical tensions height-
benchmarks; ened by the Russia-Ukraine conflict are expected to
•
the evolution of technologies for the generation, con- have lasting effects, resulting in an acceleration in
version and consumption of energy, in terms of both electrification and renewables, as well as in a greater
technical operating parameters and costs. use of LNG in order to raise the level of security of
supplies in a changed environment, especially in Eu- planning, i.e. to stabilize the average global temperature
rope; within +1.5 °C, some uncertainty clearly remains as to
•
a scenario marked by the expectation that Covid will whether certain countries could maintain inertial tra-
be contained or become endemic, with a high vacci- jectories, delaying the decarbonization process that will
nation rate and no need for large-scale lockdowns. lead to net zero emissions by 2050.
As for the climate ambition in the reference scenario, it Assumptions concerning commodity price trends as in-
is assumed that consumer electrification will continue puts to the Paris scenario are consistent with external
to increase and that renewables will be further devel- scenarios that achieve Paris Agreement goals. In par-
oped, partly due to the energy security policies adopted ticular, a sustained increase in the price of CO , caused
2
(such as REPowerEU in the EU and the Inflation Reduc- by the gradual reduction of permit supply in the face of
tion Act in the United States). In this scenario, globally growing demand, and a sharp fall in coal prices, due to
speaking, governments, companies, organizations and decreasing demand, are expected by 2030. With regard
citizens effectively participate in the collective effort to to gas, it is believed that price tensions will ease in the
mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. coming years in light of a realignment between supply
With respect to the possibility of assuming the achieve- and demand at a global level. Finally, oil prices are ex-
ment of the most challenging objective of the Par- pected to stabilize gradually, for which we estimate peak
is Agreement as a benchmark scenario for long-term demand around 2030.
Brent ($/bbl) API2 ($/t)
289.9
98.8 ~100
~80 ~80
~75 ~75
~68
~65
~44
2022(1) 2030 2022(1) 2030
CO EU - ETS (€/t) TTF (€/MWh)
2
~166
~ 125
120.5
~110
~100
80.8
~55
~44
~31
~25
2022(1) 2030 2022(1) 2030
Enel scenario Average benchmark(2) Max benchmark Min benchmark
(1) Actual.
(2) Sources: IEA - Sustainable Development Scenario and Net Zero Scenario; BNEF; IHS green case scenario; Enerdata green scenario. N.B. The scenarios used
as benchmarks have been published at various points throughout the year and may not be up to date with the latest market trends.
Alternative scenarios to the reference scenario were transition, such as the rate of electrification of final energy
defined depending on the degree of climate ambition consumption, green hydrogen penetration or end users’
at global and local level: a “Slower Transition” scenario, attitudes towards more sustainable consumption patterns
marked by a slower speed of transition, and an “Acceler- (e.g. modal shift with regard to public/private means of
ated Transition” scenario, marked by an increase in ambi- transport). These scenarios are used for sensitivity analysis
tion compared to the reference scenario, specifically with in the evaluation of investments, strategic stress tests, risk
respect to some of the characteristic variables of energy assessment, and to identify business opportunities.
Local transition scenarios The Slower Transition scenario is based on the assumption
that Italy will remain firmly committed to the existing In-
Enel’s reference scenario – the Paris scenario – covers all tegrated National Energy and Climate Plan as regards the
the countries and regions in which the Group operates, ambition to reduce emissions, which is a less optimistic
and therefore entails a climate ambition that is in line with macroeconomic scenario than the Paris scenario, partic-
the achievement of the Paris Agreement goals, supported ularly in the initial years, with increased pressure when it
by greater electrification of final energy consumption and comes to the price and supply of fossil fuels and raw ma-
the development of renewable capacity. terials.
Local scenarios were broken down based on two comple- The Accelerated Transition scenario has the same ambition
mentary approaches: of the Paris scenario when it comes to decarbonization.
•
a bottom-up approach was taken in the main countries This scenario assumes that authorization processes for
where the Group operates by using fundamental models renewable energy generation plants will be revised more
to simulate the long-term balance of the entire energy effectively, resulting in a slight increase in the number of
system, explicitly demanding that the country as a whole installations, with the costs of technologies for green hy-
limit its CO emissions.The promotion of scenario vari- drogen generation falling more rapidly and its subsequent
2
ables that are relevant to the Group’s activities (includ- increased penetration in hard-to-abate sectors, at the
ing electricity demand, rate of electrification, renewable expense of blue and gray hydrogen (hydrogen produced
capacity and distributed generation capacity, the num- from gas, respectively with and without the use of CCS
ber of electric vehicles and green hydrogen generation) technologies). Moreover, the fact that people are becom-
is thus established using dedicated models with a time ing more concerned about climate change promotes
horizon up to 2050, with the aim of minimizing costs for more “climate-aware” behavior such as a modal shift in the
the system by limiting CO emissions; transport sector (with a greater use of low-emission trans-
2
•
for the other countries of interest, the main variables of port – for example, public transport).
each scenario were established by conducting statistical
analyses of internal and consensus data, compared with Spain
external scenarios that are in line with the Paris Agree- In the case of Spain, the level of ambition established in
ment goals, which were made available by accredited the national plan is in line with the achievement of the
national and international bodies and providers. Paris Agreement goals; in light of this, the Paris scenario
foresees that the electrification rate in 2030 will be of 32%
Internal transition scenarios were defined due to the need (compared to 24% in 2021) and that the development of
for increased modeling flexibility and increased geograph- renewable capacity will be such that the share of electricity
ical and operational granularity for the main variables that demand met through renewable generation will increase
affect Enel’s various businesses compared to the scenarios to over 80% (compared to 53% in 2021). The alternative
provided by the main external providers. The latter are typi- Slower Transition scenario, instead, assumes that there will
cally outlined and made public on a global or regional level, be a delay in implementing policies for greater penetration
with a few exceptions for larger countries, which only rarely of renewables and electric technologies, especially in the
coincide with the countries in which the Group operates or case of private cars. The Accelerated Transition scenario
has an interest in. has the same ambition of the Paris scenario and envisages
that authorization processes for renewables will be quick-
Europe, focus on Italy and Spain er. This scenario also assumes that there will be a higher
In the Paris scenario, emissions in European countries are incentive for the electrification of buildings and the com-
decreasing in line with the European “Fit for 55” package, plete adoption of the national green hydrogen strategy,
as a result of increased electrification of final energy con- which will make it possible to accelerate the construction
sumption, driven by an increased use of renewables in the of renewable energy generation plants coupled with elec-
electricity generation mix. trolysers by 2030.
Italy Latin America, focus on Brazil and Chile
In Italy, according to the Paris scenario, which is more am-
bitious than the existing national plan (Integrated Energy Brazil
and Climate Plan, 2020), electrification is set to increase to In the case of Brazil, according to the Paris scenario, which
30% by 2030 (from 22% in 2021), with a level of renewable is more ambitious than the existing national plan (Plano De-
generation sufficient to meet over 70% of electricity de- cenal de Expansão de Energia 2031, 2022) when it comes
mand (instead of around 55% as envisaged in the national to reducing emissions, electrification is set to increase to
plan). 25% by 2030 (from 22% in 2021), with a level of renewable
generation sufficient to meet over 88% of electricity de- document PELP (Planificación Energética a Largo Plazo)
mand (instead of around 82% as envisaged in the national with regard to reducing emissions, and includes ambitious
plan). targets for the generation and export of green hydrogen.
The Slower Transition scenario is based on the assumption As in the government scenario, it involves shutting down
of following the increasing emission trend of the existing all coal-fired power plants by 2035, increasing taxes on
national plan (Plano Decenal de Expansão de Energia 2031), CO emissions and achieving high levels of electrification
2
with fewer hydroelectric plants being expanded in favor of in transport by banning sales of conventional vehicles by
new thermal (gas) capacity and a less optimistic macro- 2040 and committing to full electrification of city bus
economic scenario than the Paris scenario, particularly in fleets from 2040 onwards.
the initial years. The Slower Transition scenario is marked by a slower ener-
The Accelerated Transition scenario increases the ambi- gy transition, centered on implementing existing measures
tion of the Paris scenario when it comes to decarboniza- and policies that are less ambitious than the ones included
tion, assuming that the regulatory framework for building in the Paris scenario.
offshore wind plants will be more quickly defined, resulting The Accelerated Transition scenario reaches net zero
in increased exploitation of the potential of this technol- emissions by 2050 and, compared to the Paris scenario,
ogy, greater penetration of distributed solar generation, foresees an acceleration of the electrification process in
and further development of technologies for green hydro- all economic sectors, including transport. It also brings
gen generation. forward to 2035 the ban on conventional vehicle sales, a
more ambitious target for green hydrogen exports, 100%
Chile of the electricity generation mix met by renewable sources
In the case of Chile, the Paris scenario is developed in line by 2050, the phase-out of coal by 2030, and an additional
with the Net-Zero scenario set out in the government increase in taxes on CO emissions.
2
The physical climate scenario
Within the aforementioned framework, each scenario governmental Panel on Climate Change” (IPCC) on a glob-
narrative was developed in such a way as to ensure con- al scale, the Group has chosen three that are in line with
sistency between the energy transition scenarios and the those taken into account in the latest IPCC report as part
climate scenarios. of the sixth assessment cycle (AR6). Such scenarios are
Climate change is playing an increasingly prominent role in associated with emission patterns that are linked to a lev-
these scenarios, with impacts not only on the transition of el of the so-called Representative Concentration Pathway
the economy towards Net-Zero emissions, but also physi- (RCP), each one being related to one of five social and eco-
cal impacts that can be divided into: nomic scenarios that the scientific community defines as
•
acute phenomena, that is, short-term but rather intense Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSP):
•
phenomena, such as floods, hurricanes, etc., with po- SSP1-RCP 2.6: compatible with a global warming range
tential impacts on assets (such as damage and business below 2 °C, compared with pre-industrial levels (1850-
interruptions); 1900), by 2100 (the IPCC projects approximately +1.8 °C
•
chronic phenomena related to structural changes in the on average over the 1850-1900 period); the Group asso-
climate, such as the rising trend in temperatures, rising ciates the SSP1-RCP 2.6 scenario with the Paris and Ac-
sea levels etc., which can cause, for example, constant celerated Transition scenarios in analyses that take into
changes in the output of generation plants and in elec- account both physical variables and transition variables;
•
tricity consumption profiles in the residential and com- SSP2-RCP 4.5: compatible with an intermediate sce-
mercial sectors. nario, in which an average temperature increase of
around 2.7 °C is expected by 2100 when compared with
Such phenomena are analyzed by looking at how they will the 1850-1900 period. The RCP 4.5 scenario best rep-
behave in the future: this is done by selecting the best resents the current global climate and political context
available data from the output data of climate models at and the associated transition assumptions. This scenar-
various levels of resolution, as well as historical data. io projects global warming as being consistent with the
estimated temperature increase that takes into account
Among the climatic projections developed by the “Inter- current global policies;(3) the Group associates the SSP2-
(3) Climate Action Tracker thermometer, global warming estimates for 2100 considering the current “Policies & Action” and “2030 Targets Only” (updated as of
November 2022).
RCP 4.5 scenario with the Slower Transition scenario averaged together. This technique is usually adopted in
in analyses that take into account both physical vari- the scientific community to obtain a more robust, bi-
ables and transition variables; as-free analysis mediated by the various assumptions
•
SSP5-RCP 8.5: compatible with a scenario where that could characterize the single model.
no particular measures are taken to combat climate For certain specific climate variables, such as gusts of
change. According to this scenario, the global tem- wind, the Group also relies on other providers special-
perature is estimated to increase by around +4.4 °C, izing in the topic.
compared to pre-industrial levels, by 2100.
In this phase of the study, the future projections were
The Group sees the RCP 8.5 scenario as a worst-case analyzed for Italy, Spain and all countries of interest to
climate scenario, which is used for assessing the effects the Group in South America, Central America and North
of physical phenomena in a context in which climate America, obtaining, also due to the use of the ensemble
change is particularly severe, but is not considered likely of models, a more definite representation of the physi-
at present. The RCP 2.6 scenario is used for the assess- cal scenario. In addition, similarly, the Group is also ana-
ment of physical phenomena and for analyses that con- lyzing climate projection data for Africa, South Asia and
sider an energy transition that is in line with the most South-East Asia, so as to cover all the main countries
ambitious mitigation targets. and regions where the Group operates globally.
The analyses performed on the physical scenarios con- The ICTP also offers scientific support when it comes
sidered both chronic phenomena and acute phenom- to interpreting any other acquired climate data. Climate
ena. In describing specific complex events of interest, scenarios are always used for the countries that the
the Group looks at data and analyses conducted by both Group is interested in, so that climate risk can be uni-
private entities and public and academic institutions. formly assessed.
Climate scenarios are global in nature. Accordingly, in
order to determine the effects in the areas of relevance Some of these phenomena involve high levels of com-
for the Group, they must be analyzed locally. The Group’s plexity, as they do not only depend on climatic trends
active partnerships include an ongoing collaboration but also on the specific characteristics of the territo-
with the Department of Geosciences of the International ry, and require an additional modelling activity for their
Centre for Theoretical Physics (ICTP) in Trieste. As part of high-resolution representation. For this reason, in addi-
this collaboration, the ICTP provides projections for the tion to the climate scenarios provided by ICTP, the Group
main climate variables with a grid resolution that var- also uses Natural Hazard maps, which make it possible
ies from approximately 12 km to approximately 100 km to obtain, with a high spatial resolution, the return times
on the side and a time horizon of 2020-2050. The main of a series of events such as storms, hurricanes and
variables are temperature, rainfall and snowfall, and so- floods. The use of these maps, as described in the sec-
lar radiation. With respect to previous analysis carried tion “Risks and opportunities connected with climate
out, the current studies are based on the use of multi- change”, is widely consolidated in the Group, which al-
ple regional climate models: the one developed by ICTP ready uses this data based on a historical perspective
combined with five other simulations, selected as rep- to optimize insurance strategies. Furthermore, work is
resentative of the ensemble of climate models currently underway in order to be able to use this information also
available in the literature. The output of the ensemble when processed in compliance with the projections of
represents all the different climate models, which are the climate scenarios.
Integration of climate scenarios and into the fight against climate change, which are
crucial factors for assessing the sustainability of
into the Open Country
investments over a medium to long-term period.
Risk model
Therefore, this work has made it possible to also
Enel has adopted a quantitative Open Country Risk integrate climate change aspects into the Open
assessment model that can accurately monitor the level Country Risk model.
of risk of countries within its scope, which includes four More specifically, by introducing extreme weather
elements of risk: events into the Open Country Risk, the evolution of
• economic factors: measuring the economic resilience several climate hazards can be assessed, both in the
of each country, which is defined as a balanced position country and on a global scale, in a uniform manner.
with respect to the external environment, effectiveness In particular, a modular approach was adopted that
of domestic policies, banking and corporate system will enable analyses to be progressively improved by
vulnerability, attractiveness in terms of economic including new physical phenomena and fine-tuning
growth and, ultimately, a quantification of extreme methodologies and reference data. At present, it
climate events as a source of environmental and includes four climate phenomena: two are related
economic stress; to extreme temperatures, one to heavy rainfall and
• institutional and political factors: assessing the another to drought. In addition, the possibility of
soundness of institutions and of the political context; introducing other phenomena such as extreme wind
• social factors: a detailed analysis of social phenomena and rising sea levels is being looked into. Phenomena
and of human rights aimed at measuring the degree of are described with a numerical index, developed by
well-being, inclusion and social progress; taking into consideration global distribution, with
• energy factors: measuring the effectiveness of the a resolution of approximately 100 km x 100 km and
energy system and how it fits into the energy transition summarized in a composite index.
Italy
Acute phenomena: a number of acute phenomena in Italy that occurred in the past and that could potentially dam-
were analyzed, such as fire risk, extreme rainfall and heat age underground grids.(4) The results in the RCP 2.6 sce-
waves. The first two phenomena were described using nario are shown in the figure. Therefore, the average num-
standard metrics, which are extensively used in the litera- ber of days with heat waves in a year is likely to increase
ture. With regard to heat waves, custom metrics were also compared to the past, and will be more intense in areas
defined for Enel Grids, in addition to the standard metrics, currently affected by this phenomenon. Moreover, the sit-
which were identified by comparing extreme phenomena uation is worse in the RCP 4.5 and RCP 8.5 scenarios.
HISTORICAL RCP
2.6
Heat
waves
∆ days – RCP 2.6
Days per year historical vs historical
0 � 1 0 � 2
1 � 2 2 � 4
2 � 3 4 � 6
3 � 4 6 � 8
4 � 5 8 � 10
Days per year by province experiencing a heat wave in the 1990-2020 period and average change in number of days in the RCP 2.6 scenario (2030-2050) with
respect to historical figure indicated on the left.
Extreme rainfall was studied by calculating the variation provided by the FWI can be useful in characterizing fire risk
of daily rainfall above the 95th percentile, calculated as trends to support the business in managing it properly. The
average annual millimeters in the periods of reference. A studies conducted, which examine the change in projec-
general increase in extreme rainfall can be observed in the tions to 2030-2050 compared to 1990-2020, show that in
period 2030-2050 in all analyzed scenarios. However, this all scenarios there is an increase in the number of high-risk
is accompanied by a slight decrease in the annual sum of days (index value > 45) in the summer season. This change
daily precipitation, if we exclude acute rainfall. In addition, mainly affects the islands and the southern regions of the
this increase is more pronounced in Northeast Italy and country, where the increase in extreme risk days ranges
along the Tyrrhenian coast. from about +6 to +8 days compared to the historical pe-
As already shown in the analyses previously published by riod.
the Group, fire risk will also undergo important variations,
which increase in the various climate scenarios consid- Chronic phenomena: chronic changes in temperature can
ered. In particular, fire risk is described through the Fire be analyzed to obtain information on the potential effects
Weather Index (FWI), a widely used indicator at interna- on cooling and heating demand in local energy systems.
tional level that takes into account temperature, humidity, Similar to what was done in 2020, Heating Degree Days
rain and wind in order to estimate a fire risk index. The data (HDD) were used to measure heating requirements, that is
(4) The number of average days per year for each province were calculated, under the following conditions: at least five days in a row with a minimum tem-
perature above the 95th percentile of the historical distribution (1990-2020) and at least 18 °C. In addition, these five days must be characterized by the
absence of rain, and at least one day must have a maximum temperature above the 95th percentile of the historical distribution (1990-2020). This metric
was calculated by considering the entire country at the original resolution of the climate data (approximately 12 km x 12 km). Therefore, the high-resolution
data were aggregated according to each province, considering as a single heat wave the phenomenon occurring at the same time on several pixels within
the same province, and considering as duration the maximum width by combining the various pixels.
the sum, extended to all days of the year with T ≤ 15 °C, the expected average variation in the RCP 2.6 scenario. It
average
of the differences between the indoor temperature (T also shows how the distribution of population is used as a
indoor
assumed as 18 °C) and the average temperature, and the basis for calculation at a national level.(5) Generally speak-
Cooling Degree Days (CDD), which is the sum, extended to ing, an increase in CDDs is observed in the period 2030-
all days of the year with T ≥ 24 °C, of the differences 2050, which are consistently higher than over the historical
average
between the T and T (assumed as 21 °C), respec- period, with an increasing trend in the various scenarios
average indoor
tively for heating and cooling requirements. Average coun- RCP 2.6 (+~45%), RCP 4.5 (+~80%) and RCP 8.5 (+~110%).
try data were averaged over the nation, weighting each On the other hand, a reduction in heating demand is ob-
geographic node by population through the use of Shared served, which is -8% in the RCP 2.6 scenario, -12% in RCP
Socioeconomic Pathways associated with each RCP sce- 4.5 and -16% in RCP 8.5 compared to the 2000-2020 pe-
nario. The figure shows the CDDs, which were calculated riod.
across Italy at high resolution for the historical period, and
Cooling Degree Days Population
(CDD) distribution
Degree days Δ degrees/year – Population
per year historical RCP 2.6 vs historical (thousands of people)
0 � 1.5
0 � 100 200 � 400 500 � 589 0 � 20 40 � 80 100 � 120 1.5 � 3.7
3.7 � 7.1
7.1 � 13
13 � 28
28 � 940.5
Cooling degree days (CDD) in the historical period (1990-2020) and expected change in the RCP 2.6 scenario. The distribution of population (1990-2020) on
the same grid as the climate models is shown on the right, whereby the most densely populated areas that have the biggest impact on the calculation of the
country-level metric are clearly visible.
With regard to total rainfall, variations in this phenomenon 2020, no significant changes emerge, with a general trend
in the basins of interest for the Group’s hydroelectric gen- of slight decrease in Central and Southern Italy in the RCP
eration were analyzed. Based on this analysis, in which the 2.6 scenario.
period 2030-2050 was compared with the period 1990-
(5) Please note that the population density varies in the various SSPs, while population distribution across the country is much the same.
Spain
Acute phenomena: for Spain, the acute rainfall phenom- as in the RCP 2.6 scenario. In particular, heavy rainfall will in-
enon was analyzed first, calculated as average annual mil- crease in the north, whereas in the southeast it is expected
limeters in the periods of reference.(6) As shown in the fol- to decrease. The other scenarios show that there will be a
lowing figure, in which the 2030-2050 period is compared decrease in heavy rainfall in the southern part of the coun-
with the historical period 1990-2020, this acute event will try (in RCP 8.5 this reduction also affects the north-west).
be subject to variations throughout most of Spain as early
RCP RCP RCP
2.6 4.5 8.5
Flooding/
heavy rain
Δ % - RCP vs historical
(-16) � (-10)
(-10) � (-5)
(-5) � 0
0 � 5
5 � 10
10 � 15
Percentage variation of acute rainfall in different CPRs (2030-2050) compared to the historical value (1990-2020).
With regard to fire risk, the area of Spain that will see the Chronic phenomena: analysis of potential cooling and
biggest increase, when compared to the historical period, heating demand has been refined and updated in a similar
in the number of days per year with Fire Weather Index way to that for Italy. In terms of Heating Degree Days and
greater than 45 (i.e. extreme risk) is the center-south, in Cooling Degree Days, compared to the period 1990-2020,
all future scenarios. This increase is greater in worst-case HDDs are estimated to decrease in all scenarios in the pe-
scenarios (RCP 8.5) than in the RCP 2.6 scenario. riod 2030-2050, from around -10% in RCP 2.6 to -20% in
Heat waves, as already highlighted in the analyses pub- RCP 8.5, and RCP 4.5 in the middle. The data also confirm
lished previously by the Group, will be more geographically an increase in CDDs (+34%) in the RCP 2.6 scenario and
widespread and more frequent in the period 2030-2050, a change of +61% and +87% in the RCP 4.5 and RCP 8.5
especially in the southern part of the country. scenarios, respectively.
(6) Extreme rainfall is the sum of daily rainfall above the 95th percentile of the historical distribution in a specific period.
Cooling Degree Days Population distribution
(CDD)
Degree days Δ degrees/year – Population
per year historical RCP 2.6 vs historical (thousands of people)
0 � 0.27
0 � 100 300 � 400 700 � 785 0 � 20 60 � 80 120 � 123.7 0.27 � 0.64
0.64 � 1.48
1.48 � 3.25
3.25 � 8.42
8.42 � 1,584.95
Cooling degree days (CDD) in the historical period (1990-2020) and expected change in the RCP 2.6 scenario. The distribution of population (1990-2020) on
the same grid as the climate models is shown on the right, whereby the most densely populated areas that have the biggest impact on the calculation of the
country-level metric are clearly visible.
With regard to total rainfall, variations in this phenomenon not show appreciable variations when comparing the RCP
in the basins of interest for the Group’s hydroelectric gen- 2.6 scenario (2030-2050) and the historical period (1990-
eration were analyzed. Based on this analysis, the data do 2020), with a general trend of slight decrease.
Latin America
Acute phenomena: the fire risk, measured as the num- current Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) val-
ber of days per year with a FWI greater than 45 (extreme ues (as shown in the figure on the right(7)), that is, in areas
risk), differs from one area to another. As the figure on the with sparse vegetation. Some areas of the Amazon, in the
left shows, when comparing the RCP 2.6 scenario (2030- heart of Brazil, are an exception, as they show not only a
2050) with the historical period (1990-2020), there is an sharp increase in the number of days at risk of extreme
increased number of days at high risk of fires in most parts fire, but also high vegetation coverage. It is essential to
of Brazil and in the Atacama Desert. In the rest of South combine the fire risk index and vegetation, since the latter
America, it stays the same or decreases a little. Interesting- can potentially fuel fires and increase the likelihood of fire
ly, the risk of fire is particularly high in areas with the lowest spreading.
(7) The map in the figure on the right shows processed NASA data on the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index from June 2021 to June 2022. The NDVI
quantifies vegetation by measuring the difference between near-infrared light (which is strongly reflected by vegetation) and red light (which is absorbed by
vegetation). This is a good indicator of vegetation growth and density. The higher the NDVI, the denser and healthier the vegetation.
Fire Weather Index Normalized Diff erence Vegetation
RCP 2.6 Index
Δ days – RCP 2.6 NDVI
vs historical (2021-2022)
-10 � 0 0 � 0.2
0 � 10 0.2 � 0.4
10 � 20 0.4 � 0.6
20 � 30 0.6 � 0.8
30 � 40 0.8 � 0.9
40 � 52
Variation in the number of average days per year with a FWI greater than 45 between the RCP 2.6 period (2030-2050) and the historical period (1990-2020) (left)
and the NDVI vegetation index from June 2021 - June 2022 (right).
The “Warm Spell Duration Index” (WSDI) is a standard in- changes in temperature. Again, changes in Heating De-
dicator that can be used to evaluate extreme tempera- gree Days and Cooling Degree Days over the period 2030-
tures.(8) Comparing the period 2030-2050 with the period 2050, compared to the period 1990-2020, were calculated
1990-2020, the data show a significant increase in days from data from 6 models, with a resolution of 25 km x 25
characterized by heat waves already in the RCP 2.6 scenar- km. Average country data were averaged over the nation,
io, especially in some areas of Brazil, Colombia, Peru and weighting each geographic node by population through
northern Chile. This increase in extreme temperatures will the use of Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSPs) asso-
be even more pronounced in worst-case scenarios (RCP ciated with each RCP scenario. In each country studied,
8.5). CDDs increase progressively in all scenarios: in the RCP 2.6
For extreme precipitation, daily rainfall above the 95th per- scenario they increase by 35%(9) in Chile, while the increase
centile was considered, similar to what was done for Italy is between 13% and 18% in the other countries examined.
and Spain. Future changes for this phenomenon are less In the RCP 4.5 scenario, this increase becomes 113% for
homogeneous. For some areas, such as northern Brazil and Chile and slightly more than 25% for Argentina, Brazil and
northern Argentina, decreases compared to the historical Peru, while it stands at 18% for Colombia. The increase in
reference period are expected in the RCP 2.6 scenario. On CDDs with respect to the historical period is even more
the other hand, in other areas, such as western Colombia marked in the RCP 8.5 scenario. With regard to HDDs, in
and parts of Brazil and Peru, heavy rainfall increases are ex- the RCP 2.6 scenario considerable reductions are estimat-
pected. ed in Colombia (-52%), Brazil (-21%) and Peru (-14%), as well
as a slight decrease in Chile (-5%). This trend intensifies in
Chronic phenomena: a study was carried out on potential the RCP 4.5 scenario: ~-62% in Colombia, ~-27% in Brazil,
changes in heating and cooling demand related to chronic ~-20% in Peru and -8% in Chile.
(8) The WSDI considers heat waves characterized by at least 6 consecutive days with a maximum daily temperature above the 90th percentile of the historical
distribution.
(9) In Chile, the percentage increase is higher than in the other LATAM countries, since the absolute values of CDD are very low. In fact, historically, CDDs are very
close to zero throughout most of the country, with a few degrees Celsius annually only in the central part of the country.
Cooling Degree Days Population distribution
(CDD)
Degree days Δ degrees/year – Population
per year historical RCP 2.6 vs historical (thousands of people)
0 � 1.4
0 � 500 1,500 � 2,000 3,000 � 3,038 -2 � 50 150 � 250 350 � 610 1.4 � 2.6
2.6 � 4.8
4.8 � 9.8
9.8 � 22.5
22.5 � 4,927.4
Cooling degree days (CDD) in the historical period (1990-2020) and expected change in the RCP 2.6 scenario. The distribution of population (1990-2020) on
the same grid as the climate models is shown on the right, whereby the most densely populated areas that have the biggest impact on the calculation of the
country-level metric are clearly visible.
With regard to total rainfall, variations in the basins of in- basins in question. In contrast, in Peru, rainfall will basically
terest for the Group’s hydroelectric generation were ana- stay the same in the RCP 2.6 scenario. Ultimately, in Chile,
lyzed. Analyses comparing 2030-2050 projections in the as in Argentina and Colombia, total rainfall is expected to
three scenarios to the historical period 1990-2009 show decrease in the lowest-emission scenario, but this de-
a trend of rainfall reductions in Argentina and Colombia. crease may have already taken place over the last few years
A slight increase or decrease in total rainfall is expected (as it is already decreasing compared to historical levels).
for the RCP 2.6 scenario in Brazil, based on the group of
North and Central America
Acute phenomena: first of all, the variation of frost days, western part of the macro-region, with major variations in
that is, the average number of frost days per year,(10) was terms of magnitude in worst-case RCP scenarios. It is im-
analyzed for North America and Central America in several portant to stress the fact that the decrease in frequency
future scenarios (2030-2050) compared to the historical does not mean that the intensity of this acute phenome-
period (1990-2020). As shown in the maps in the following non has increased, which is a topic that the Group is cur-
figure, the number of frost days will decrease mainly in the rently looking into.
(10) For the sake of accuracy, frost days are the number of days per year when the minimum temperature Tmin is lower than 0 °C.
RCP RCP
RCP
2.6 4.5
8.5
Heavy snow/
icing
Δ days/year - RCP vs
historical
-17 � -14
-14 � -12
-12 � -10
-10 � -8
-8 � -6
-6 � -4
-4 � -2
-2 � 1
Variation in the average number of frost days per year between the various RCP scenarios (2030-2050) and the model history (1990-2020).
With regard to heat waves, as in the case of South Amer- Furthermore, acute precipitation is expected to increase
ica, the WSDI was studied. When comparing the 2030- in nearly all of North America in the RCP 2.6 scenario com-
2050 period with the historical period 1990-2020, we can pared to the historical period. It is important to highlight
expect a significant increase in the number of days char- the fact that the magnitude of such increases varies from
acterized by heat waves as early as the RCP 2.6 scenario, one area to another. Also in the RCP 2.6 scenario, in Cen-
especially in Central America and along the west coast of tral America, heavy rainfall will decrease in the central part
North America. This increase in the WSDI will be even more of the region. In other areas it will remain the same or will
pronounced in the RCP 8.5 scenario. slightly increase.
The number of days in a year with a high fire risk, namely
with a FWI greater than 45, is basically the same across Chronic phenomena: as shown in the figure below, the av-
most of the macro-region in the RCP 2.6 scenario (2030- erage annual temperature increases in all future scenarios
2050) compared to the historical period (1990-2020). In (2030-2050) compared to the historical period (1990-2020).
the western part of the US and Mexico, instead, the num- On the whole, the increases are greater in the RCP 8.5 sce-
ber of high-risk days is expected to increase, becoming nario than in the RCP 2.6 one. In all RCP scenarios, the regions
increasingly higher in the worst-case scenario. that will get warmer are the ones located in the far north.
RCP RCP RCP
2.6 4.5 8.5
Average
temperature
Δ °C - RCP
vs historical
0.67 � 1
1 � 1.5
1.5 � 2
2 � 2.5
2.5 � 2.65
Average temperature variation between the various RCP scenarios (2030-2050) and the model history (1990-2020).
By comparing the various RCP scenarios (2030-2050) and For further information, please read the 2022 Integrated
the model history (1990-2020), the expected total annual Annual Report.
rainfall tends to decrease in Central America, while in North
America it will remain the same or will increase depending
on the area.
The strategy to tackle climate change
3-3 201-2 TCFD: Strategy
Enel’s efforts to fight against climate change are one of The impact of climate change can also be mitigated by
the key pillars of the Group’s strategy in the short and researching breakthrough technologies that allow for a
long term. On the one hand, Enel plays its part in driv- greener economy by design or which, for example, simply
ing the global energy transition towards a zero-emis- improve performance and circularity.
sion model as a mitigation lever and, on the other hand,
by setting up the best adaptation measures in order to
Medium and long-term strategy
adapt to changes that will eventually take place, in greater
or lesser frequency and intensity.
Mitigation includes all initiatives intended to minimize The Group’s decarbonization strategy, combined with its
the direct and indirect impact of the Group’s activities on drive toward electrification, once again reaffirms its com-
climate change, that is, first and foremost, all measures mitment to achieving zero emissions by 2040. In this re-
taken to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. spect, goals have also been set with regard to both direct
Adaptation, instead, includes all the initiatives that Enel and indirect emissions throughout the Group’s value chain.
intends to implement so as to make its assets more re- Specifically, the strategy is based on:
•
silient, increase its capacity to react to extreme climatic the decarbonization of the generation mix, by progres-
events, and come up with strategic options and business sively developing renewable energy while ceasing to
models that will address various needs as the climate produce electricity from thermal power sources;
•
changes. the electrification of final energy consumption, by pro-
In each of these two areas, there are challenges but also moting new products and services for customers while
opportunities that the Group is aiming to seize through its gradually exiting the business of gas sales to end consu-
strategy. According to Enel’s vision, adapting to climate mers (to be completed by 2040);
•
change also entails exploring new business opportunities the digitalization and upgrade of distribution network,
associated with the changed environment, developing so as to tackle the ongoing energy transition and ensure
new technologies and creating value from acquired skills. service quality for customers.
Development of new Exit from coal-fi red Exit from retail gas Enel capex
RES capacity to have generation by 2027 sales plan fully aligned
100% renewable and from gas-fi red Transition to 100% with 2040 zero
generation facilities generation by 2040 renewable energy emissions target
by 2040 sales by 2040
2022 2030 2040 2022 2030 2040
RES capacity Gas sold
~65% ~85% ~100% 10.2 ~3 0
on total (bsmc)
Energy mix decarbonization: Short-term strategy - Investment
Plan 2023-2025
Enel expects to reach about 85% of its installed capaci-
ty from renewable sources by 2030, compared to around
65% in 2022, also considering the managed and not con- The Group’s investments in 2023-2025, totaling approxi-
solidated capacity (63.3%, considering only the consoli- mately 37 billion euros, will be primarily aimed at promot-
dated capacity). In addition, it promotes a gradual reduc- ing an integrated industrial supply chain to achieve sus-
tion in the share of thermoelectric capacity in its energy tainable electrification, which is becoming more and more
mix, aiming to phase out coal-fired generation by 2027 and necessary in global energy systems. This will involve sup-
gas by 2040, thus achieving a 100% renewable, zero-emis- plying around 90% of fixed-price sales in “core” countries
sion energy mix by 2040. (Italy, Spain, the United States, Chile, Brazil and Colombia)
with carbon-free electricity in 2025 (compared to 70% in
2022), increasing generation from renewable sources to
Electrification: about 75% of the total, as well as achieving a digitalization
rate of grid customers of around 80%. Specifically:
Electric mobility is one of the top priorities in the field of
•
electrification. Expanding the electric vehicle charging in- The Group intends to add around 21 GW of installed
frastructure is one of the prerequisites for achieving wide- renewable capacity (of which around 19 GW in “core”
spread use of electric cars and is therefore absolutely es- countries) by 2025, so it is well on track to meet its de-
sential for the transition to zero-emission mobility. Enel X carbonization targets, in line with the Paris Agreement.
Way shares the same goal and is currently expanding its The Group intends to develop this renewable capacity
charging network even further, with the aim of having more through a market-leading pipeline of around 455 GW.
than 4 million charging points by 2030. Ultimately, the Group is planning to reduce installed
Another key aspect is the electrification of residential con- thermoelectric capacity by 42% in 2025 (16 GW) com-
sumption, which Enel will be encouraging by promoting pared to 2022 values (27.7 GW).
heat pumps for domestic heating and induction cooktops
•
in kitchens, resulting in an increased electrification rate of As for end customers, it plans to accelerate the provi-
Enel’s customers from 17% today to around 20% in 2025 sion of value-added services and the implementation
and 30% in 2030. This will allow them to reduce their total of a state-of-the-art infrastructure over the next three
energy expenditure by 5% by 2025 and by around 20% by years, in particular:
–
2030, as well as their carbon footprint by 2030 as a result charging points for electric vehicles (from approxi-
of a reduction in gas sales from approximately 10 bcm to- mately 0.3 million in 2022 to approximately 1.4 million
day to around 3 bcm in 2030, and then down to zero in in 2025);
–
2040. behind-the-meter storage systems (from around 75
MW in 2022 to around 352 MW in 2025);
–
demand response (from around 8.5 GW estimated in
Distribution grids: 2022 to around 12.4 GW in 2025).
•
Moreover, Enel will support electrification also by investing As for the grids, the Group is planning to invest approx-
in infrastructure, since grids are the key enablers of the imately 15 billion euros in the 2023-2025 period, most-
energy transition. Out of the total amount to be invested ly in Europe (more than 80% of investments), since the
in grids over the next few years, an increasingly large por- Group now has a more geographically balanced pres-
tion will be spent on expanding the number of connections ence and the regulatory frameworks are favorable, so as
with new users and on increasing the flexibility and capac- to promote the role of grids as enablers of the energy
ity of the grid so that it can handle a growing share of dis- transition and as a driving force in the fight against cli-
tributed generation. Smart grids, clean energy, and energy mate change.
efficiency are accessible to Enel customers through new
features in each smart meter. The Group has already in- By adopting the Stewardship business model, Enel will also
stalled 46 million electronic meters to date and expects to be mobilizing Group and third-party investments worth a
reach 80 million units by 2030. total of approximately 15 billion euros. Such resources are
instrumental in adding new generation from renewable
sources, as well as a new infrastructure and services to
accelerate the electrification process for the Group’s cus-
tomers.
Around 94% of the Group’s total investments in 2023- er inherently fall under SDG 7, investments in the distri-
2025 are in line with the United Nations Sustainable De- bution network fall under SDG 9, and investments in Enel
velopment Goals (“SDGs”), directly pursuing SDGs 7 (“Af- X are related to SDG 11. Therefore, the 94% referred to
fordable and clean energy”), 9 (“Industry, innovation and above does not include investments in conventional gen-
infrastructure”) and 11 (“Sustainable cities and communi- eration (including investments in maintenance) and in re-
ties”), all of which are functional to SDG 13 (“Climate ac- tail gas.
tion”). The investments envisaged in the Group’s Strategic In addition, over 80% of the Group’s investments in the
Plan are in line with the decarbonization and greenhouse 2023-2025 period will be aligned with the EU Taxonomy
gas reduction targets, based on a specific methodology criteria due to their substantial contribution to climate
whereby investments made in renewables and retail pow- change mitigation.
Risks and opportunities connected
with climate change
3-3 201-2 TCFD: Strategy and Risk Management
The process for defining the Group’s strategy is accompanied al approaches to managing them, comprising mitigation
by a careful analysis of the risks and opportunities connect- and adaptation measures. Two main macro-categories of
ed to it, also including the aspects related to climate change. risks/opportunities are identified:
•
Every year, before the Board of Directors examines the Stra- those connected with developments in physical vari-
tegic Plan, the Control and Risk Committee is presented with ables;
•
a quantitative analysis of the risks and opportunities related those connected to the evolution of the transition sce-
to the Group’s strategic positioning, which includes aspects narios.
related to the climate, such as regulatory factors and weather The physical risks are divided into acute (or extreme events)
and climate phenomena. and chronic: the former are linked to extremely intense
In order to facilitate the proper identification and manage- weather-climatic conditions, while the latter are linked to
ment of risks and opportunities related to climate change, a gradual and enduring changes in climatic conditions.
Group policy was published in 2021 that describes common Extreme events expose the Group to: potential unavailabil-
guidelines for assessing the risks and opportunities arising ity of assets and infrastructure for longer or shorter peri-
from climate change. The “Climate change risks and opportu- ods of time, service restoration costs, inconvenience for
nities” policy defines a shared approach for the integration of customers, etc. Chronic changes in climatic conditions,
climate change and energy transition issues into the Group’s on the other hand, expose the Group to other risks or op-
processes and activities, thus informing industrial and stra- portunities: for example, structural temperature chang-
tegic choices to improve business resilience and long-term es can impact electricity demand and affect generation,
sustainable value creation, consistent with the adaptation and while changes in rainfall or wind patterns could impact
mitigation strategy. The main steps considered in the policy the Group’s business in terms of lower or higher output.
are as follows: Generally speaking, adapting to the changes that will most
•
prioritizing phenomena and scenario analysis. These ac- likely take place in the future also leads to efforts in inno-
tivities include the identification of physical and transition vation and strategic positioning: it may be possible to de-
phenomena relevant to the Group and the consequent velop new businesses and better products in order to live
development of scenarios to be considered and devel- sustainably in a changed environment.
oped through analysis and processing of data from internal With regard to the energy transition process, marked by
and external sources. Functions can be developed for the a progressive reduction in CO emissions, there are risks
2
phenomena identified that link the scenarios (e.g. data on and opportunities associated with the changing regulato-
the change in renewables) to business operations (e.g. the ry and legislative context, with trends in technological and
change in potential output); competitive development, with electrification and behav-
•
impact assessment. Includes all analyses and activities nec- ior, and with the resulting market trends.
essary to quantify the effects at the operational, economic In line with the climate and transition scenarios that Enel
and financial levels, depending on the processes into which has used to define risks and opportunities, it appears that
these are integrated (e.g. design of new constructions or the main phenomena related to the transition are now be-
operational performance appraisal, etc.); coming evident depending on the behavior adopted by
•
operational and strategic actions. Information from previ- customers, the industrial strategies adopted by various
ous activities is integrated into processes, informing Group sectors of the economy and regulatory policies, includ-
decisions and business activities. Examples of activities and ing fiscal policies. By the year 2030, transition trends will
processes that benefit are capital allocation, e.g. for evalu- be observable as the context evolves: the Enel Group has
ating investments on existing assets or new projects; defin- decided to lead and pave the way for the transition, and
ing resilience plans, risk management and financing activi- is prepared to seize any associated opportunities. As pre-
ties and engineering and business development activities. viously mentioned, strategic choices that focus strongly
on energy transition, with more than 90% of investments
In order to identify the main types of risk and opportuni- being dedicated to improving some of the SDGs, make it
ty and their impact on the business associated with them possible to adopt risk mitigation “by design” and to max-
in a structured manner consistent with the TCFD, we have imize opportunities by maintaining a position that takes
adopted a framework that explicitly represents the main into consideration the identified medium and long-term
relationships between scenario variables and types of risk phenomena. Strategic choices go hand in hand with the
and opportunity, specifying the strategic and operation- operational best practices implemented by the Group.
Framework of main risks and opportunities
Risk &
Scenario opportunity Management
phenomena Time horizon driver Description approach
The Group adopts best practices to manage
the restoration of service as quickly as possible.
We also work to implement investments in
resilience (e.g., the Italian case). With regard to
risk assessment in insurance, the Group has a loss
Starting with Risk: especially extreme weather/climate
prevention program for property risk that also
Acute physical short term Extreme events events, which can damage assets and
assesses the main exposures to natural events,
(1-3 years) interrupt operations.
supported by preventive maintenance activities and
internal risk management policies.
Looking forward, the assessments will also include
the potential impacts of long-term trends in the
most significant climate variables.
The Group's geographical and technological
diversification means that the impact of changes
Risk/opportunity: increase or decrease
(positive and negative) in a single variable is
in electricity demand under influence
mitigated at the global level. In order to ensure
Starting with of temperature, whose variations
Chronic that operations always take account of weather
long term Market can impact the business. Increase or
physical and climate phenomena, the Group adopts a
(2030-2050) decrease in renewables output, which
range of practices such as, for example, weather
may be affected by structural changes in
forecasting, real-time monitoring of plants and
resource availability.
long-term climate scenarios to identify any chronic
changes in renewable source availability.
The Group is minimizing its exposure to risks
through progressive decarbonization and the
focus of the business on renewables, grids and
customers. The business model is designed
to maximize the benefits of our integrated
Risk/opportunity: policies on CO position in the core countries and leveraging
2
Starting with prices and emissions, energy transition stewardship activities, which enables us to exploit
Policy &
Transition short term incentives and policies, revision of market the opportunities connected with the energy
Regulation
(1-3 years) design and permitting procedures, and transition. The Group is also actively contributing
resilience regulation. to the formation of public policies through its
advocacy efforts. These activities are conducted
within platforms for dialogue with stakeholders
that explore ambitious national decarbonization
scenarios in the various countries in which Enel
operates.
The Group is maximizing opportunities by
adopting a strategy founded on the energy
transition, focusing on the electrification of
Risk/opportunity: changes in the energy consumption and the development of
Starting with prices of commodities and energy, renewables and a geographical positioning in
Transition medium term Market evolution of energy mix, changes in retail countries in which we have an integrated presence.
(2022-2030) consumption, changes in competitive Considering alternative transition scenarios, the
environment. Group assesses the impact of different commodity
price trends, changes in the share of renewables in
the generation mix and the electrification of final
consumption.
The Group is maximizing opportunities thanks to its
strong positioning in new businesses and beyond-
Starting with
Product and commodity services. In addition, considering
medium term
Services alternative transition scenarios, the Group assesses
(2022-2030)
Opportunity: increase in margins and the impact of different trends in the electrification
greater scope for investment as a of consumption.
consequence of the transition in terms The Group is maximizing opportunities thanks to
Transition of greater penetration of electrical its strong strategic positioning in new businesses
mobility, distributed generation and new and global grids. With the penetration of direct and
Starting with technologies for the direct and indirect indirect electrification technologies, considering
medium term Technology electrification of final consumption. alternative scenarios, the Group assesses the
(2022-2030) potential opportunities for scaling existing and
potential businesses and for the development of
new solutions linked to digitalization and resilience
of power grids.
The framework outlined above also highlights the relation- The following will describe the main sources of risks and
ships that link the physical and transition scenarios with opportunities identified, operational best practices for
the potential impact on the Group’s business. These effects managing weather and climate phenomena, and qualita-
can be assessed over three time horizons: the short-medi- tive and quantitative impact assessments conducted to
um term (1-3 years), in which sensitivity analyses based on date. All of the above activities are performed throughout
the Strategic Plan presented to investors in 2022 can be the year through an ongoing effort to analyze, evaluate
performed; medium-term (until 2029), in which it is possi- and manage the information processed. As TCFD states,
ble to assess the effects of the energy transition; and long- the process of disclosing risks and opportunities related to
term (2030-2050), in which chronic structural changes in climate change will be gradual and incremental from year
the climate should begin to emerge. to year.
Transition phenomena: business effects,
risks and opportunities
As regards the risks and opportunities associated with the mainstream approach in the energy mixes of coun-
transition variables, we consider the different reference tries, greater consumer electrification, energy efficiency,
scenarios in combination with the elements that make up flexibility of the electrical system and upgrading of in-
the risk identification process (e.g. competitive context, frastructure.
–
long-term vision of the industry, materiality analysis, tech- Opportunities: creating a more favorable framework
nological evolution etc.) to identify the drivers of potential for investing in renewables, also through the devel-
risks and opportunities, with priority on events with greater opment of long-term markets (PPAs, CfDs), electrical
relevancy. The main identified risks and opportunities are technologies and distribution networks in line with
described below. the Group’s strategy.
–
Risks: lengthy administrative authorization processes
and ineffective market design and regulatory frame-
Policy and Regulation works in core countries can lead to reduced asset
profitability and limited opportunities for growth.
•
Limits on emissions and carbon pricing: the enactment
•
of laws and regulations that introduce more stringent Resilience regulation and adaptation: improvement of
emissions limits by government action (non-market driv- standards or introduction of ad hoc mechanisms to reg-
en) and market-based mechanisms. ulate investments in resilience in the context of the evo-
–
Opportunities: Command & Control regulations and lution of climate change.
–
market-based mechanisms strengthening CO price Opportunities: benefits from investments that reduce
2
signals to foster investment in carbon-free technol- service quality and continuity risks for the community.
–
ogies. Risks: in the case of especially severe extreme events
–
Risks: lack of a coordinated approach among the with a greater-than-expected impact, there is a risk
various actors and policy-makers involved and limit- of failure to recover within an adequate timeframe
ed effectiveness of the policy instruments deployed, and consequently a risk to Enel’s reputation.
with an impact on the speed of the trend toward elec-
•
trification and decarbonization in the various sectors, Financial measures for the energy transition: develop-
compared with a decisive group strategy focused on ing policies and financial instruments that promote the
the energy transition. energy transition, which should be capable of support-
ing an investment framework and a long-term, credible
•
Policies and regulation to accelerate the energy transi- and stable positioning of policy-makers. Introduction of
tion and energy security: introducing policies, regulato- rules and/or public and private financial instruments (e.g.
ry frameworks and market design revisions that promote funds, mechanisms, taxonomies, benchmarks) aimed at
the energy transition, consequently guiding the energy integrating sustainability into financial markets and pub-
system toward the use of renewable energy sources as lic finance instruments.
–
Opportunities: the creation of new markets and sus- as lithium, nickel and cobalt) and semiconductors,
tainable finance products consistent with the invest- could lead to delays in procurement and/or increased
ment framework, activating greater public resources costs, such as to slow down the penetration of re-
for decarbonization and access to financial resources newables, storage and electric vehicles.
in line with energy transition objectives and the relat-
ed impact on costs and on finance charges; introduc-
tion of subsidized support tools (funds and calls) for Products and services
the transition.
– •
Risks: actions and instruments not sufficient to pro- Electrification of residential consumption and indus-
vide incentives consistent with an overall position- trial processes: with the gradual electrification of end
ing tailored to the energy transition, uncertainty or uses, the penetration of products with lower costs and a
slowdown in the introduction of new instruments and smaller impact in terms of residential emissions will ex-
rules due to the deterioration in finances. pand (for example, the use of heat pumps for heating
and cooling).
–
Opportunities: increase in electrical consumption in
Market the context of reducing energy consumption, thanks
to the improved efficiency of the electric carrier. More
•
Commodity price dynamics: changes in market dynam- opportunities to provide beyond commodity services
ics, such as those relating to commodity price volatility, and the chance of reducing the energy expenditure
may influence the behavior of traders, policy makers and and carbon footprint of customers. Increasing invest-
customers. ment in networks to drive consumer electrification.
– –
Opportunities: accelerating clean electrification as Risks: additional competition in this market segment.
a solution for cutting energy costs and limiting ex- This phenomenon depends on whether electricity
posure to commodity volatility. Customers are more networks are well developed, which is crucial for en-
likely to switch from conventional fossil-fuel technol- suring increasing load levels and service continuity.
ogies to efficient electrical technologies.
– •
Risks: a “disorderly” energy transition due to the in- Electric mobility: use of more efficient and effective
troduction of potentially distortive measures. modes of transportation from the point of view of cli-
•
Market dynamics: end users are more likely to choose mate change, with a special focus on the development
more sustainable technologies as they are more aware of electric mobility and charging infrastructure; electrifi-
of climate change risks and due to greater regulatory cation of large-scale industrial consumers.
–
pressure. Opportunities: positive effects of the increase in
–
Opportunities: positive effects associated with the electricity demand and greater margins connected
growth in electricity demand and the greater room with the penetration of electric transportation and
for renewables, also thanks to an increased demand the relative beyond commodity services.
–
for long-term contracts (PPAs). Risks: additional competition in this market segment.
The Group has already implemented strategic actions to
Technology mitigate the potential risks and exploit the opportunities
associated with transition variables. Shared long-term
•
Technology penetration to support the transition: grad- value can be created through an industrial and financial
ual penetration of new technologies such as storage, strategy that incorporates ESG factors, with an integrated
demand response and green hydrogen; digital lever for approach focusing on sustainability and innovation.
transforming operating models and “platform” business The strategy focusing on full decarbonization and energy
models. transition enables the Group to be resilient to risks result-
–
Opportunities: investments in the development of ing from the introduction of more ambitious policies for
technology solutions, as well as positive impacts from reducing emissions. It also maximizes opportunities for
increased electricity demand and increased room for developing renewable generation, infrastructure and en-
renewables from green hydrogen generation. abling technologies, partly through geographic positioning
–
Risks: slowdowns and interruptions to the raw mate- in countries with an integrated presence and by promoting
rials supply chain, including metals for batteries (such stewardship activities.
To quantify the risks and opportunities deriving from With reference to consumer electrification, the Slower
the energy transition in the long term, two transition Transition scenario encompasses lower penetration rates
scenarios, described in the paragraph “Energy tran- of the most efficient electrical technologies, in particular
sition scenarios”. The effects of Slower Transition and electric cars and heat pumps, causing a decrease in elec-
Accelerated Transition scenarios have therefore been tricity demand compared to the Paris scenario, which is
identified on the variables that can have the greatest estimated to cause limited impacts on the Retail commod-
impact on the business, in particular electricity demand, ity business & beyond. At the same time, lower electricity
influenced by the dynamics of consumer electrification, demand results in less development space for renewable
and therefore of penetration of electrical technologies capacity, with impacts on the generation business.
and the electricity generation mix. These considerations With reference to the Accelerated scenario, a more rapid
offer a basis for determining the Group’s strategic posi- reduction in the cost of green hydrogen generation tech-
tioning in terms of resource allocation. nologies is assumed. This results in a higher penetration
Enel’s reference scenario – the Paris scenario – entails a of this energy carrier, at the expense of blue and gray hy-
growing ambition in terms of decarbonization and ener- drogen, with a consequent additional effect on domestic
gy efficiency, supported by greater electrification of fi- electricity demand and renewable capacity installations
nal energy consumption and the development of renew- compared to the Paris scenario.
able capacity. The dynamics related to the energy tran- For the different countries and regions, all scenarios, but to
sition will bring increasing opportunities to the Group. a greater extent the Paris and Accelerated scenarios, will
In particular, in the retail electricity market, progressive involve a considerable increase in the complexities that will
electrification of final energy consumption – especially have to be managed by the grids. A significant increase is
for transport and the residential sector – will lead to a expected in fact in distributed generation and in other re-
considerable increase in electrical consumption to the sources, such as storage systems, greater penetration of
detriment of other, more high-emissions energy carri- electric mobility with the relative charging infrastructures,
ers. Similarly, the gradual increase in the proportion of as well as the increasing rate of electrification of consump-
renewable energy in the energy mix is expected to lead tion and the introduction of new actors with new methods
to a reduction in the wholesale price of electricity in the of consumption. This context will involve a decentralization
medium to long term. However, this impact is limited, of the extraction/feed-in points, an increase in electric de-
given that the market design based on the system mar- mand and the average requested power, a considerable
ginal price is unchanged in the medium term. Possible variation in energy flows, which will require dynamic and
alternative market structures could induce different ef- flexible grid management. The Group therefore expects
fects. that in this scenario incremental investments will be nec-
In reference to the economic impacts that may result essary to guarantee the connections and suitable levels
from the change in the transition scenarios, the Group of quality and resilience, by promoting the adoption of
has performed some analyses regarding impacts in innovative operating models. These investments must be
terms of EBITDA that the Slower Transition and Accel- accompanied by coherent policy and regulation scenarios
erated Transition scenarios would bring to the 2030 re- to guarantee suitable economic returns for the Enel Grids
sults compared to the baseline Paris scenario. Business Line.
Time horizon Upside Downside
Short (2022-2024)
Medium (until 2030)
Long (2030-2050)
Quantification - range
< €100 €100-300 > €300 Mitigation
Category Time horizon Main drivers Scenario mn mn mn Actions
Accelerated: increase in average
unit consumption thanks to greater
electrification. It already includes effects
connected with greater efficiency. Positive
impact from increased revenues, partly
Electrification offset by rise in sourcing costs
Market Medium trend and unit
consumption
Slower: decrease in average unit Adoption of
consumption as a result of reduced measures to
electrification. Negative impact linked increase CB in order
to decrease in revenues, partly offset by to offset negative
decline in sourcing costs margins
Accelerated: impacts connected to
increased volumes associated with an
expansion of indirect penetration of
electrification through green hydrogen
(with potential increase in growth
Green hydrogen
Products and Medium development capacity)
Services
scenarios
Slower: impacts connected to decreased
volumes associated with reduction in
indirect penetration of electrification
through green hydrogen
Accelerated: change in margins as a
function of greater penetration of EV and
Development of distributed generation
Products and
Medium electric mobility/
Services
photovoltaics Slower: change in margins as a function Mitigation in
strategy of offering
of decreased penetration of EV and
"packages" of
distributed generation
services
Note: The estimated transition impacts are based on current coverage levels.
Physical phenomena: identification,
assessment and management
of risks and opportunities
Chronic physical risks
•
The climate scenarios jointly developed with the Interna- hydroelectric generation: variation in the average level
tional Centre for Theoretical Physics in Trieste, Italy, do of rainfall and snowfall and temperatures with a potential
not show any certainty of structural changes before 2030, increase and/or reduction in hydroelectric generation;
•
while some structural changes may begin to take place solar generation: variation in the average level of solar
between 2030 and 2050. Basically, even though weather radiation, temperature and rainfall with a potential in-
changes are being recorded, which are often significant, crease or reduction in solar generation;
•
it is nevertheless difficult to determine in the short term wind generation: variation in the average wind level with
whether certain phenomena are changing structurally, that a potential increase or reduction in wind generation.
is, whether average reference values are already changing.
This can be established in the long run with probability in- The Group is working to estimate the relationships be-
tervals. tween changes in physical variables and the change in the
The main impacts of chronic physical changes can pro- potential output of individual plants in the different cate-
duce similar effects on the following variables: gories of generation technology.
As part of the assessment of the effects of long-term cli-
•
electricity demand: variation in the average tempera- mate change, chronic events relevant to each technology
ture level with a potential increase or reduction in elec- were identified and analyses of their impacts on manufac-
tricity demand; turability were initiated.
•
thermal generation: variation in the level and average
temperatures of the oceans and rivers, with effects on
thermal generation;
Priority
High Low Not relevant
Event
Rain/ Air River/sea
Wind Solar radiation Sea level
snow temperature temperature
Thermal
Solar
Wind
Hydro
Storage
Geothermal
Enel Grids
Enel X
Global Retail
The initial scenario analysis has shown that chronic struc- volumes being purchased on the market in order to drive
tural changes in the recent trends of physical variables the business strategy. On the other hand, increased gen-
will begin to occur in a considerable manner starting from eration from renewable sources may lead to reduced pur-
2030. However, in order to obtain an indicative estimate chases of volumes on the market (or even more sales).
of the potential impacts, and include the possibility of the Based on the analyses conducted at each plant, which
early onset of chronic effects, it is possible to test sensitivi- were then aggregated, it was calculated that, on average,
ty of the Industrial Plan to the factors potentially influenced hydroelectric generation may slightly decrease in the fu-
by the physical scenario, regardless of any direct relation- ture (with substantial differences between sites), with av-
ship with climate variables. The existing Industrial Plan was erage variations at country level ranging between -1% and
created based on the information contained in the average -5% in the 2030-2050 period in the RCP 2.6 scenario com-
scenarios for chronic phenomena, so that the possible ef- pared to historical values. The average changes in wind
fects of trends in climatic variables could also be taken into power output will largely depend on the location of the
consideration. assets, with minor variations that can be either positive or
negative. Ultimately, the effects for solar technology will be
mostly positive, with average increases at a country level of
Analyses of the impact of chronic climate up to 3% in the 2030-2050 period in the RCP 2.6 scenar-
change on renewable generation io. Such effects, aggregated at portfolio level, highlight the
fact that the geographical and technological diversifica-
A number of ad hoc functions were created for each re- tion plays a role in balancing the different variations.
newable technology (wind, solar and hydroelectric) and
plant in order to calculate the impact of the chronic effects
of climate change on the generation of our assets. For Acute physical risks
each variation in climate variables (such as temperature,
radiation, wind speed and rainfall), these functions asso- With regard to acute physical phenomena (extreme
ciate likely changes in the electrical output of the plants in events), their intensity and frequency can cause significant
our portfolio. and unexpected physical damage to assets and generate
The first step in calibrating these “link” functions was to negative externalities associated with the interruption of
use the historical data of the weather-climate variables service.
and the internal references of the observed energy output Within the scope of scenarios regarding climate change,
of our plant fleet. This allowed us to obtain “link” functions the acute physical component continues playing an ex-
that meet the specific characteristics of each renewable tremely important role when defining the risks to which
plant and technology. the Group is exposed, both due to the wide geographical
As a result, we were able to study the chronic climate im- diversification of its asset portfolio and due to the prima-
pacts for possible future forecasts of climate variables ry importance of the renewable natural resources for the
(RCP 2.6, 4.5 and 8.5 scenarios). generation of electricity.
In addition to chronic phenomena involving average struc- In the various cases, the acute physical phenomena such
tural changes, it is also important to study the volatility as wind storms, floods, heat waves, severe cold, etc.,
that is characteristic of weather and, consequently, more demonstrate a high level of intensity yet do not have a very
short-term. Information obtained from the ranges of vari- high occurrence frequency in the short term, but, consid-
ation of chronic trends predicted by climate scenarios was ering the medium and long-term climatic scenarios, this
taken as input for strategic planning, as was the historical will increase considerably in the future.
volatility of meteorological data by analyzing variations in Hence, for the reasons described above, the Group is cur-
electricity generation (TWh) over the last 10 years. rently managing the risk deriving from extreme events in
Weather and climate fluctuations can lead to adjustments, the short term. At the same time, it is extending its meth-
since the output of power plants feeds sourcing for sell- odology also to longer time periods (until 2050) according
ing energy to customers. This means that reductions in to the identified climate change scenarios (RCP 8.5, 4.5
the amount of energy used for renewable generation may and 2.6).
lead to sourcing imbalances, which may result in missing
Methodology for evaluating the risk of • The vulnerability, that, in percentage terms, indicates
extreme events how much value is lost and/or damaged upon occur-
In order to quantify the risk deriving from extreme events, rence of the catastrophic event. In more specific terms,
the Group refers to a consolidated methodology for ana- therefore, it is possible to refer to the damage to the ma-
lyzing the catastrophic risk used in the insurance sector terial assets the impact on the continuity of generation
and in IPCC reports.(11) Through its own insurance business and/or distribution of electricity, and also the provision
units and the captive insurance company Enel Insurance of the electric services offered to the end user.
NV, the Group is managing the various phases connected
•
to risks deriving from natural catastrophes: from the as- The Group creates and promotes specific vulnerability
sessment and quantification to the corresponding cover- analyses, especially in the case of damage to its assets,
ages to minimize the impacts. The methodology applies related to every technology in its portfolio: solar, wind
to all extreme events that can be analyzed, such as wind and hydroelectric power plants, transmission and dis-
storms, heat waves, tropical cyclones, floods, etc. In all of tribution networks, primary and secondary substations,
these types of natural catastrophes, however, three inde- etc. These analyses are then, of course, focused on the
pendent factors can be identified that are summarized extreme events that have greater impact on the various
below. types of technology: as a result, this defines a matrix that
associates the individual natural catastrophic events
•
The probability of the event (“hazard”), that is, its theo- with the corresponding type of asset that is impacted in
retical frequency over a specific period of time: the “re- a considerable manner.
turn time”. In other words, a catastrophic event that has a
•
return time of 250 years, for example, implies that it can The exposure, which is the set of economic values in
be associated with a probability of 0.4% that it will occur the Group portfolio that can be considerably impacted
in a year. This information, which is necessary for assess- by the occurrence of natural catastrophic events. Also in
ing the frequency of the event, is then associated with this case, the scopes of the analyses are specific to the
its geographical distribution with respect to the various various generation technologies, for network assets and
areas where portfolio assets are located. for the services to the end user.
•
Therefore, for this purpose, the Group uses “hazard The combination of the three factors described above
maps” which associate, for the various types of natural (hazard, vulnerability and exposure) provide the funda-
catastrophes, each geographical points on the global mental element for assessing the risk deriving from ex-
map with the corresponding estimate of the frequen- treme events. From this point of view, the Group differen-
cy associated with the extreme event. This information, tiates the risk analysis with respect to the climate change
which is organized in geo-referenced databases, is pro- scenarios, depending on the specific nature of the various
vided by global reinsurance companies, meteorological associated time periods. The following table summarizes
consultancy companies or academic institutions. the scheme adopted for the evaluation of impacts deriving
from acute physical phenomena.
Time horizon Hazard Vulnerability Exposure
Hazard maps based on historical data Vulnerability, being related
Short term (1-3 years) Group values in the short term
and meteorological models to the type of extreme
event, to the specifics of
the damage type and to the
technical requirements of the
Long term (at 2050 and/or 2100) Hazard maps and specific studies for technology under consideration, Long-term evolution of Group
different IPCC RCP climate scenarios Vulnerability is essentially values
independent of time horizons
(11) L. Wilson, “Industrial Safety and Risk Management”. University of Alberta Press.
T. Bernold. “Industrial Risk Management”. Elsevier Science Ltd.
Kumamoto, H. and Henley, E. J., 1996, Probabilistic Risk Assessment And Management For Engineers And Scientists, IEEE Press, ISBN 0-7803100-47.
Nasim Uddin, Alfredo H.S. Ang. (eds.), 2012, Quantitative risk assessment (QRA) for natural hazards, American Society of Civil Engineers CDRM Monograph
no. 5
UNISDR, 2011. Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction: Revealing Risk, Redefining Development. United Nations International Strategy for
Disaster Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland.
Managing the Risks of Extreme Events and Disasters to Advance Climate Change Adaptation - A Special Report of Working Groups I-II of the Intergovern-
mental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK, and New York, NY, USA.
In the case of the vulnerability of assets within the portfo- defined in collaboration with the Group’s relevant Global
lio, a table for the prioritization of the impacts of the main Business Lines:
extreme events on the different technologies has been
Priority
High Low Not relevant
Event
Flooding/
Heat Heavy snow/
heavy Hail Windstorm Wildfire Lightning
waves icing
precipitation
Under
Thermal
assessment
Under
Solar
assessment
Under
Wind
assessment
Hydro
Under
Storage
assessment
Under
Geothermal
assessment
Enel Grids
Enel X Under
Global Retail assessment
Management of risks from short-term mitigation measures which, as will be described below, in-
extreme events clude both insurance coverage and other managerial and
Over the short term (1-3 years) the Group, in addition to operational actions aimed at further reducing the Compa-
what was illustrated above in terms of risk assessment ny’s risk profile.
and quantification, will implement actions targeted toward Indeed, empirical evidence shows negligible repercussions
reducing the impacts on business due to extreme cata- of such risks, as demonstrated by data for the last 5 years.
strophic events. It is possible to distinguish two main types Considering the most relevant events, defined as those
of actions: defining an effective insurance coverage and with a gross impact >10 million euros, the cumulative value
the various climate change adaptation activities related to of the gross impact amounts to ~130 million euros, which
preventing damage that could result from extreme events. represents less than 0.06% of the Group’s insured values
The main components of these actions are described as of 2022, or ~224 billion euros, most of which are recov-
below and, in the case of activities related to preventing ered through insurance payouts.
and mitigating the damage, specific reference is made to
the Group’s Generation and Infrastructure and Networks Enel Group insurances
Global Business Lines. Every year, the Group defines global insurance programs
for its business in the various countries where it operates.
The two main programs, in terms of scope of coverage and
Impacts of acute physical events on the volumes, are as follows:
•
Group the Property Program (“Property Damage and Business
Interruption Insurance Program”) for material damage
The Enel Group has a well-diversified portfolio in terms of that can be caused to the assets and the resulting inter-
technologies, country and regional distribution and asset ruption in business. Therefore, in addition to the cost for
size. Consequently, the exposure of the portfolio to natural the new reconstruction of the asset (or its parts), also the
risks is also diversified. The Group implements various risk economic losses due to their shutdown in terms of gen-
eration and/or distribution of electricity are also remu- implementing internal risk transfer policies that reward
nerated according to the limits and conditions defined better performing Business Lines when it comes to risk
in the policies; mitigation. From this perspective, the method and infor-
•
the Liability Program (“General & Environmental Liability mation extracted from ex-post event analyses play a cru-
Insurance Program”), which covers third party damage cial role in defining processes and practices for mitigating
following the impacts that extreme events can have on similar events in the future.
the assets and on the Group’s business. As part of the Property Program, Enel Insurance NV envis-
ages a Premium Refund program for Business Lines related
Starting from an effective assessment of the risk, suitable to the loss ratio and the achievement of the Group’s SDG
limits and insurance conditions can be defined in the in- goals, thereby contributing to the virtuous circle linked to
surance policies and this also applies in the case of natural the Group’s adaptation to the challenges posed by climate
extreme events related to climate change. In fact, in this lat- change.
ter case, the impacts on business can be considerable but,
as shown in cases that occurred in the past and in various For further information, please read the 2022 Integrated
areas around the world, the Group has shown absolute re- Annual Report.
silience thanks to the wide insurance coverage limits, which
are also the result of a solid reinsurance structure, as re-
gards the Group’s captive company Enel Insurance NV. Enel’s resilience and adaptation to climate
In this context of effective insurance coverage, the mea- change
sures implemented by the Group with regard to the pre-
ventive maintenance of electricity generation and network The application of long-term climate scenarios makes it
assets are equally important. In fact, while the effects of possible to prepare adaptation plans for the Group’s port-
such activities are directly reflected in the mitigation of the folio of assets and activities. Climate scenarios are devel-
impacts of extreme events, they are also an essential pre- oped by identifying the physical phenomena that are most
requisite for optimizing risk financing and for minimizing relevant to each business (such as heat waves, extreme
– compared to the insurance market – the costs of global rainfall, fire risk, etc.) in order to produce analyses that pro-
hedging programs, including the risk associated with nat- vide not only high-level indications (such as country risk in-
ural catastrophic events. This adaptive strategy consists of dices that can be compared with each other), which make
managerial strategies and actions, not only related to in- it possible to study physical impacts at an individual site.
surance, which change according to boundary conditions; This approach applies to both the existing portfolio and to
for instance, the Group was able to substantially reverse new investments.
the sharp upward trend in premiums in insurance markets By assessing the vulnerability of assets, priority actions to
by modifying its risk retention policies for assets and by increase resilience can be identified.
Scenario integration Prioritization
High level (e.g., Open Country Risk, Specification of adaptation priorities at
evolution of energy system) the local level and main adaptation risks
and actions at the country level
Site specific (e.g., high resolution
climate data)
Vulnerability assessment Adaptation plans
Analysis of vulnerabilities to quantify Development of long-term
risk at the asset level (existing and new adaptation plans to increase
investment) resilience
CLIMATE
ADAPTATION:
a climate-proof future
We are building a
climate-proof company,
combining mitigation efforts
Mario Ciancarini
with the ability to understand
Group Climate Scenarios, Climate
Change Adaptation Strategy – change and deliver solutions
AFC Group Strategy
aimed at maintaining
profitability and promoting
resilient growth models for
the benefit of all stakeholders.
Climate Risk Index “Adaptation to climate change is only possible
by taking a multidisciplinary approach. At Group
Strategy, we work together and exchange views with
climate change experts in order to translate the latest
knowledge into useful information for the Group.
Along with all business lines, we apply instruments and
expertise so that we can develop solutions that will
increase our resilience, our ability to deal with adverse
events and to design products and services that
support stakeholders’ adaptation.”
Since 2018, the Group has been working with and seizing opportunities by creating products and
the International Center for Theoretical Physics services that will benefit customers and all stakeholders.
in Trieste to define climate scenarios for the Besides using high-resolution data and carrying out
next 30 years and even longer. Since then, we have detailed analyses of individual assets, the approach that
continued to develop instruments and skills in order to was adopted enables global climate risk to be assessed by
manage, understand and apply a huge amount of data. comparing the evolution of several extreme events in the
We now provide the Group with global climate analyses, different countries.
which are based on data gathered both independently For example, one of several results achieved in
by the scientific community and through partnerships collaboration with EGP was the calculation of
with academic and private institutions and innovation the expected variation in renewable output from
challenges. These analyses look at three different climate hydroelectric, wind and solar plants between 2030 and
scenarios that cover all possible futures. 2050. A further example is the study, conducted with
A project to define a Climate Change Adaptation Plan Enel Grids, which has estimated that breakdowns could
was launched in 2022, involving staff departments and potentially increase as a result of increased heat waves in
business lines, with the aim of translating the study of Italy between 2030 and 2050. These works will continue
complex physical phenomena and asset vulnerability by incorporating more and more Adaptation into all of the
into tangible actions. The goal is to increase business Group’s processes so that, by working together, we can
resilience, enhancing responsiveness to adverse events build a climate-proof future.
Adaptation activities such as the planning of investments in response to climate
phenomena. Adaptation activities also include procedures,
The Group implements solutions to climate change adap- policies and best practices.
tation by taking a comprehensive approach, which involves For new investments, action can also be taken early in the
assessing the potential impacts in order to properly target design and construction phase to reduce the impact of
the measures required to improve the ability to respond to climate risks by design, for example by taking into consid-
adverse events (Response Management) and to increase eration climate scenarios and analyses of the vulnerability
business resilience (Resiliency Measures), consequently of assets to specific phenomena in order to implement re-
reducing the risk of adverse events having a negative im- silient solutions.
pact in the future. Moreover, the Group will use the exper-
tise and instruments developed to analyze the effects of The following table shows a high-level summary that rep-
climate change in order to create value by devising new resents the type of actions that Enel implements for prop-
business options aimed at offering solutions that will make er management of adverse events and to increase resil-
the adaptation process easier for communities and all ience to weather phenomena and their evolution due to
stakeholders. climate change. Several activities are described in greater
Adaptation solutions may concern both actions imple- detail below.
mented in short-term and long-term decision making,
Business Lines A. Resiliency Measures - Enhancing asset resilience B. Response Management - Adverse event management
Enel Green Power and Existing assets Existing assets
Thermal Generation 1. Guidelines for hydraulic risk assessment and design 1. Critical incident and event management
2. Lessons-learned feedback from O&M to E&C and BD 2. Site-specific emergency management plans and
procedures
New construction 3. Specific tools for forecasting imminent extreme
In addition to actions for existing assets: events
1. Climate change risk assessments (CCRA) included in
environmental impact documentation (pilot)
Enel Grids Existing assets and new construction Existing assets
1. Guidelines for developing grid resilience enhancement 1. Strategies and guidelines for Risk Prevention,
plans (e.g., the “Network Resilience Enhancement Plan” of Readiness, Response and Recovery actions for the
e-distribuzione) distribution grid
2. Global guidelines for emergency and critical event
management
3. Risk prevention and preparation measures for fires
involving electrical installations (lines, transformers,
etc.)
Enel X Global Retail Existing assets Existing assets
1. Preliminary analysis of the impacts of medium/long-term 1. Enel X Critical Event Management
climate change
Generation assets resilience • installing drainage pumps, raising embankments, peri-
With regard to generation, over time the Group has carried odic cleaning of canals and interventions to consolidate
out targeted actions on specific sites and established ad hoc land adjacent to plants to prevent landslides in order to
management activities and processes. mitigate flood risks.
•
Actions on specific sites in recent years include, for example: periodic site-specific reassessment for the hydroelec-
•
improving cooling water management systems for cer- tric plants for flood scenarios using numeric simulations.
tain plants in order to counter the problems caused by The processed scenarios are managed with mitigation
the decline in water levels in rivers, such as the Po in Italy. actions and through interventions on the civil works,
•
installing fogging systems to improve the flow of inlet air dams and intake systems.
and offset the reduction in power output caused by the
increase in ambient temperature in CCGTs.
The Group adopts several best practices to properly man- ensure swift restoration of services ex post, i.e. once the
age the impact of weather events on electricity genera- climatic events have caused damage to assets and/or dis-
tion, such as: connections. The 4R strategy is divided into four phases:
•
weather forecasting both to monitor renewable re- 1. Risk Prevention: includes actions that make it possible
source availability and detect extreme events, with warn- to reduce the probability of losing grid elements due to
ing systems to ensure the protection of people and as- an event and/or to minimize its effects, such as inter-
sets; ventions able to increase the robustness of the infra-
•
hydrological simulations, territory surveys (also using structure and maintenance operations. When choosing
drones), monitoring of possible vulnerabilities using technical solutions to increase resilience, a catalogue is
digital GIS systems (Geographic Information System) and used to determine which is the best way to intervene for
satellite measurements; each climatic event and geographic area;
•
advanced monitoring of more than 100,000 param- 2. Readiness: comprises all measures that aim to improve
eters (with more than 160 million historical measure- the timeliness with which potentially critical events are
ments) detected on dams and hydroelectric civil works; identified, ensuring coordination with the Civil Protec-
•
real-time remote monitoring of power plants; tion Department and local officials, as well as to prepare
•
safe rooms in areas exposed to tornadoes and hurri- the necessary resources once a grid disconnection has
canes, such as wind plants in Oklahoma, USA; occurred;
•
adoption of specific guidelines for carrying out hydro- 3. Response: represents the phase for assessing the op-
logical and hydraulic studies that are targeted, from the erating capacity for facing an emergency when an ex-
first development phases, toward assessing risks inside treme event occurs, which is directly correlated to the
the plant and toward the external areas of the plant, with ability to mobilize operating resources in the field and
the application of the principle of hydraulic invariance the possibility to perform remote controlled operations
during the design of the draining and mitigation works; to restore service via resilient backup connections;
•
check of potential climatic trends for the main project 4. Recovery: the final phase which has the goal of recon-
parameters in order to keep the dimensioning of the necting the grid as soon as possible with ordinary op-
systems into account for relevant projects (for exam- erating conditions, in the cases in which an extreme
ple: assessments of the temperature of a cold source to weather event cause interruptions in service in spite of
guarantee greater flexibility for cooling the new CCGT) the previously adopted measures for increasing resil-
and specific civil works (for example: rainfall assess- ience.
ments for the design of drainage systems in solar plants);
•
estimate of extreme wind speed using updated data- Following this approach, the Business Line has prepared
bases containing the registers and historical trajectories various policies on specific actions aimed at dealing with
of hurricanes and tropical storms, with the resulting se- the various aspects and risks inherent in Climate Change,
lection of the wind turbine technology that is best suit- in particular:
•
ed to the conditions that were found. Policy for preparation and recovery during emergen-
In order to be able to promptly react to adverse events, cies: a policy related to the last 3 steps of the 4R ap-
the Group also implements dedicated emergency man- proach which indicates the guidelines and measures
agement procedures with real-time communication targeted toward improving the preparation strategies,
protocols, planning and management of all activities to mitigating the impact of total interruptions and, finally,
restore operating assets in a short space of time, as well restoring service to the largest number of customers
as standard checklists for assessing damage, ensuring possible as quickly as possible.
that all plants can be put back into service as safely and
•
quickly as possible. One way of minimizing the impacts of Guidelines for the Resilience Plan of the electricity grid:
climate phenomena is the Lesson Learned feedback pro- a dedicated policy has the objective of identifying the
cess, which is implemented by the technical departments, extraordinary climatic events with the greatest impact
is governed by the existing operating model and influences on the grid, assessing specific KPIs of the AS-IS grid and
future projects. improving them on the basis of proposed actions in or-
der to finally assess their order of priority. This makes it
Grid assets resilience possible to select the actions that, when implemented,
In order to deal with extreme climatic events, in the Grids minimize the impact on the grid of particularly critical
Business Line, the Enel Group has adopted an approach extreme events in a certain area/region. The Policy is
called “4R” which, in a dedicated Policy that aims to en- therefore set in the first two phases of the 4R approach,
sure an innovative strategy for the resilience of distribution suggesting measures regarding Risk Prevention and
networks, defines the measures to be adopted in the phase Readiness. In Italy, this Policy translates into the Resil-
of preparation for an emergency on the network and to ience Plan that e-distribuzione has prepared every year
since 2017, and which represents and addendum to the ice-sleeve formation on MV conductors, IoT sensor trials
Development Plan that includes ad hoc investments over were conducted for monitoring overhead lines in areas
a 3 year period that aim to reduce the impact of extreme that are particularly exposed to snow and wind (Newman
events belonging to a certain critical cluster: heat waves, project).
ice loads and wind storms (falling of tall trees). Around
672 million euros were invested in the period 2017-2021
and a further 262 million euros will also be used in the fol- Inclusion of climate change effects in the
lowing three years, as explained in the addendum to the evaluation of new projects
2022-2024 Plan. In the face of these risks, investments
have been planned such as the targeted replacement of Many activities related to the evaluation and implemen-
bare conductors with insulated cable, in some cases the tation of new projects can benefit from climate analyses,
burying of cables, or solutions that provide re-powering both general and site-specific, which the Group is begin-
routes that are not vulnerable to the above-mentioned ning to integrate with those already considered in the eval-
phenomena. As in Italy, similar topics are being exam- uation of new projects. For example:
ined in other countries too, such as Europe and South
•
America, so as to prepare a process for planning ad hoc Preliminary studies: in this stage, climate data can offer
investments that can increase the resilience of grids to preliminary screening, through the analysis of specific
extreme events, while taking into consideration the spe- climate phenomena, such as those shown above in the
cific characteristics of each territory. analysis of physical scenarios, and summary indicators
such as the Climate Risk Index, integrated into the Open
•
Policy on the prevention and preparation of the risk of Country Risk. These data provide a preliminary measure
fire for electrical installations: a policy dedicated to fire of the most relevant phenomena in the area, among
risk defines an integrated approach to emergency man- those identified as being of interest for each technology.
•
agement applied to forest fires, both in cases in which Estimation of potential output: climate scenarios will be
they are started by events exogenous to the networks progressively integrated to allow for an assessment of
and in cases, albeit rare, in which they are caused by how climate change will modify the availability of the re-
the networks themselves and, in any case, are poten- newable resource at the specific site. In the preliminary
tially dangerous for Enel plants. The document sets out analysis of the impact of chronic climate change on re-
the guidelines to be implemented in the various areas newable power generation, the approach applied for the
of presence so as to identify areas/plants at risk, define moment on a few pilot sites and then scaled to the entire
specific prevention measures (such as evaluating specif- generation portfolio is described.
•
ic maintenance plans and any strengthening measures) Environmental impact analysis: the Group has begun to
and, in the event of a fire, to manage the emergency in integrate the Climate Change Risk Assessment into the
the best possible way so as to limit its impact and re- set of documentation produced, which contains a rep-
sume the service as quickly as possible. resentation of the main physical phenomena and their
expected change in the area.
• •
The implementation of systems for weather forecast- Resilient design: as described above, among the climate
ing, grid monitoring and assessing the impact of critical change adaptation activities, those aimed at devising
climate phenomena on the grid, preparation of opera- resilient assets by design take on great importance. The
tional plans and organization of special exercises. In this Group is working to consider progressively analyses
regard, it is particularly important to have prior agree- based on climate data, for example the increase in fre-
ments in place for mobilizing extraordinary resources quency and intensity of acute events. These will comple-
– which are identified beforehand in order to deal with ment existing analyses based on historical data already
the emergency – whether internal or from contracting in use, in order to increase the resilience of future assets,
companies. For instance, in Italy, besides installing and including any adaptation actions that may be required
putting into operation three experimental stations in over the life of the project.
order to observe and investigate the phenomenon of
Enel’s performance in fighting against climate change
3-3 305-1 305-2 305-3 305-4 305-6 TCFD: Metrics & Targets
Our carbon footprint 2021 2022
Total direct GHG Total indirect GHG Total indirect GHG Total GHG emissions
emissions Scope 1 emissions Scope 2 emissions Scope 3 (MtCO )
2eq
(MtCO ) (MtCO ) (MtCO )
2eq 2eq 2eq
132.9
125.8
75.8
70.5
51.6 53.1
3.8 4.0
Value chain Generation Trading Networks End customers Other
Global Real Estate
Business Lines and others
GHG Scope 1 1 2 3 4 5 6
direct
Generation Other SF losses Auxiliary Offi ces Company
emissions from thermal in t6 he motors in fl eet
(MtCO ) sources networks networks
2eq
52.11
50.71
0.11 0.11 0.21 0.22 0.01 0.01 0.07 0.08
0.45 0.54
GHG Scope 2 7 7 8 7
indirect
Electricity Electricity Technical Electricity
emissions purchased purchased losses purchased
(MtCO ) from the grid from the grid from the from the grid
2eq
grid (offi ces)
(location
based) 0.63 0.57 0.14 0.16 2.97 3.26 0.03 0.03
GHG Scope 3 9 10 11 12 13
indirect Upstream Electricity Sales of Supply Transport of
emissions Fuels purchased gas chain other raw
(MtCO ) for sale materials
2eq and waste
28.40
23.96
22.25 22.90
14.18
12.99
11.25
10.31
0.00 0.01
2021 2022
Source Description MtCO MtCO
2eq 2eq
Combustion of fossil fuels in generation activities (CCGT, Oil&Gas and coal thermal
plants and Biomass).(1) This includes:
1 Generation from
thermoelectric sources • CO emissions 50.56 51.93
2
• CH (GWP=28) and NO emissions (GWP=265) 0.16 0.18
4 2
CO, CH, NO emissions from fossil fuel use in auxiliary engines in nuclear and
2 4 2 0.03 0.02
renewable plants
NF losses (GWP=16,100) in solar panel generation activity(2) 0.00 0.00
3
SF losses (GWP=23,500) in insulation systems of power plants 0.03 0.04
6
2
Other Use of refrigerant gases Fgas and ODS in thermal and hydroelectric plants 0.01 0.01
CH leakages in gas-fi red thermal power plants(3) 0.00 0.01
4
CH biogenic emissions from hydroelectric basins 0.32 0.32
4
CO, CH, NO emissions from transport of fuels (LNG and coal) on vessels under own
2 4 2 0.06 0.15
operational control
3
SF losses in the networks SF losses (GWP=23,500) in insulating systems for power distribution activities 0.11 0.11
6 6
4
Auxiliary motors in networks CO, CH, NO emissions of fossil fuel use in auxiliary engines in network assets 0.21 0.22
2 4 2
5 CO, CH, NO emissions from diesel and natural gas combustion for heating systems
Offi ces 2 4 2 0.01 0.01
and canteens in offi ces, including all propert ies in all Business Lines and Group offi ces
6 CO, CH, NO emissions from diesel and gasoline combustion in company fl eet
Company fl eet 2 4 2 0.07 0.08
vehicles
GHG emissions from consumption of electricity purchased from the grid (location
based):
7 Electricity purchased from the • In energy power plants (including 3SUN Factory, mines and port terminals) 0.63 0.57
grid for consumption(4) • In power distribution substations 0.14 0.16
• Civil uses in the premises (computers, lighting, heating) and in the commercial
0.03 0.03
offi ces (Market and Enel X)
8 GHG emissions from energy dissipation by distribution network losses under Enel’s
Technical losses from the grid 2.97 3.26
operational control (location based)
Emissions of CO, CH and NO from the extraction and transport of fuels used in
2 4 2
thermal power plants:
9 Upstream Fuels • Coal 1.24 1.88
(Category 3)(5)
• Gas 10.01 8.42
• Diesel & fuel oil 0.01 0.01
10 Electricity purchased for sale Emissions for the generation of electricity purchased and sold to end customers
23.96 28.40
(Category 3)(5) (retail market, MtCO in 2022 and 2021, respectively)
2eq
11
Gas sales (Category 11)(4) Emissions from the use of gas sold to end customers (retail market) 22.25 22.90
12 GHG emissions from the supply chain, related to the production of goods and
Supply chain(5) (6) (7) 12.99 14.18
services purchased from suppliers
Transport of other raw
13
materials and waste (Category GHG emissions from road transport of other fuels, raw materials and waste 0.00 0.01
4)(5) (8)
1
epocS
GHG
2
epocS
GHG
3
epocS
GHG
GHG source considered in SBTi target on Scope 1 GHG emission intensity relating to power generation.
GHG source considered in the SBTi target on the intensity of GHG Scope 1 and 3 emissions relating to Integrated Power.
GHG source considered in the SBTi target on absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions relating to Retail Gas.
GHG source considered in SBTi target on absolute additional GHG emissions Scope 1, 2 and 3.
GHG source excluded from SBTi targets boundary.
(1) Following the guidance of the GHG Protocol, CO emissions from biomass, which amounted to 114,838 tCO in 2022 (125,878 tCO in 2021), were not includ-
2 2 2
ed as they cannot be considered within Scope 1, while CH and NO emissions were considered.
4 2
(2) NF losses were 14 tCO in 2021 and 4 tCO in 2022.
3 2eq 2eq
(3) CH leakage in gas-fi red thermal power plants was 3,255 tCO in 2021 and 6,754 tCO in 2022.
4 2eq 2eq
(4) 2021 fi gure restated following the introduction of a new method for calculating GHG emissions from pumping systems.
(5) Scope 3 categories according to the GHG Protocol.
(6) 2021 fi gure restated following the implementation of a new, more precise methodology for calculating indirect emissions related to work perf ormed in the
power distribution business.
(7) 29% of 2022 emissions contribute to the target on absolute additional GHG Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions in 2030 and 43% in 2040 (these percentages cannot
be added together).
(8) GHG emissions from transport of other fuels, raw materials and waste on wheels are 4,032 tCO in 2021 and 9,842 tCO in 2022.
2eq 2eq
The calculation of Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions covers all zil, with a negative impact on indirect emissions related
greenhouse gases (CO , CH , NO, HFCs, PFCs, SF , NF ), to technical grid losses, which have a weight of 81% in
2 4 2 6 3
depending on the type of emission source. Scope 2.
In 2022, Enel’s carbon footprint was 132.9 MtCO (up
2eq
•
from 2021 by 6%), broken down as follows: Scope 3: 75.8 Mt CO accounting for 57% of total GHG
2eq
•
Scope 1: 53.1 MtCO , representing 40% of total GHG emissions. There has been an 8% increase over 2021 as
2eq
emissions (98.2% of these emissions of CO , CH and a result of:
2 4
–
NO result from the combustion of fossil fuels in ther- a 9% increase in indirect emissions from suppliers
2
mal power plants for electricity generation). Despite the (from 13.0 MtCO to 14.2 MtCO ), due to a 19% in-
2eq 2eq
positive impact of the sales of gas-fired plants in Russia crease in the volumes (measured in euro) of products,
and the closure of coal-fired plants in Chile, there was a services and works ordered, although the ratio of gre-
3% increase in direct emissions compared to 2021, due enhouse gas emissions to volumes ordered improved
to an increase in coal-fired electricity generation in Eu- by 8% due to the circularity approach in procurement
rope of about 7 TWh (61.5% increase compared to 2021) (from 968 tCO /€ to 889 tCO /€);
2eq 2eq
–
as a result of the current geopolitical environment and a 19% increase in indirect emissions from the pur-
various weather factors, including a reduction in gas chase of energy for sale to end customers (from 24.0
availability and an increase in drought, which limited hy- MtCO to 28.4 MtCO ), mainly due to the worse-
2eq 2eq
droelectric generation in Europe (7 TWh less compared ning of the emission factors of the electricity systems
to 2021, a 31% reduction). The percentage of emissions in which Enel purchases electricity in the wholesale
related to EU-ETS is 66.8% of the total Scope 1 (compa- market;
–
red to 61.5% in 2021) and the percentage of emissions a 52% increase in indirect emissions from the coal mi-
related to the green tax system in Chile (Sistema de Im- ning and transport process for thermal power plants
puestos Verdes) accounted for 9.0%. (from 1.2 MtCO to 1.9 MtCO ), due to the geopo-
2eq 2eq
litical context and the drought period in Europe. In
•
Scope 2: 4.0 MtCO accounting for 3% of the total GHG spite of this, indirect emissions related to the process
2eq
emissions. Despite the 6% reduction in scope 2 emis- of extracting and transporting gas for thermal power
sions from energy consumption in 2022 compared to plants and end customers decreased by 16% in 2022
2021 due to a reduction of 9% of the energy consump- compared to the previous year (from 10.0 MtCO to
2eq
tion in 2022 (from 3.6 TWh to 3.2 TWh), there has been 8.4 MtCO ).
2eq
a 7% increase in overall Scope 2 emissions compared to
2021, due to the worsening of the emission factors of CO emissions from biomass combustion, not included in
2
the electricity systems in some countries where Enel di- Scope 1, were 114,838 tCO in 2022, down 9% from 2021.
2
stributes energy, including Italy, Romania, Chile and Bra-
In 2022, the trend in intensity metrics compared to 2021
was as follows:
2021 2022
Intensity metric (gCO /kWh) (gCO /kWh) Var. %
2eq 2eq
Metric considered for the 2020-2022 long-term incentive program.
Takes into account CO emissions relating to power generation,
2
excluding other greenhouse gases.
The target set in 2022 of 220 gCO/kWh was not reached due to
2
the following exogenous factors related to the geopolitical context:
CO emissions intensity •
2 222 225 1.4% non-authorization of the closure of the As Pontes coal-fired plant
relating to power generation
(Spain), requested in 2019 for 2021;
•
three-month delay in authorizing the closure of the Bocamina
coal-fired plant (Chile).
The sterilization of these exogenous effects leads to a result of 220
gCO/kWh.
2
Metric considered in the Sustainability-Linked Financing
Framework. It considers Scope 1 emissions relating to power
Scope 1 GHG emissions generation (including heat), including CO, CH and NO, and
2 4 2
Intensity relating 225 229 1.8% excluding pumped storage power generation.
to Power Generation The increase compared to 2021 is mainly due to higher coal
production in Europe following the drought period (particularly in
Italy) and the geopolitical context.
Metric considered in the Sustainability-Linked Financing
Framework. It is calculated as the combination of the Group’s direct
GHG emissions (Scope 1, including CO, CH and NO) from power
2 4 2
generation and the Group’s indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) from
generation of electricity purchased and sold to end customers,
Scope 1 and 3 divided by power generation (including heat and excluding pumped
GHG emissions Intensity 203 218 7.4% storage generation) and purchase of electricity.
relating to Integrated Power In addition to the exogenous factors already indicated in the
previous metrics on direct emissions, the increase compared to
2021 is also due to an increase in indirect emissions relating to the
purchase of energy caused by a worsening of the emission factors
of the electricity systems in which Enel sells electricity to the end
customer.
The metric considers 100% of direct emissions (Scope 1), including
those from power generation (and other emissions in plants),
Scope 1 GHG emissions
229 233 1.7% energy distribution, the vehicle fleet and buildings, compared to all
intensity
power generation (except pumped storage generation).
The increase is due to the exogenous factors described above.
The GHG inventory statements were audited by DNV GL, and Reporting Standard (GHG Protocol). Furthermore, the
one of the main certification bodies world-wide, with calculation of Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions has been sub-
a reasonable level of certainty for Scope 1, Scope 2 and ject to reasonable assurance by the independent auditing
Scope 3 emissions, as limited to the sale of natural gas, company, KPMG SpA.
and with a limited level of certainty for the other Scope 3 For more details concerning Enel’s carbon footprint, please
emissions included within the scope of application of the refer to the 2022 GHG inventory (accessible via the follow-
inventory. The audit was conducted according to Standard ing link: https://www.enel.com/content/dam/enel-com/doc-
ISO 4064-3 for the compliance of greenhouse gas (GHG) umenti/investitori/sostenibilita/ghg-inventory-2022.pdf.
inventories with the WBCSD/WRI Corporate Accounting
Financial, operational and
environmental metrics
The main metrics and financial goals regarding the risks the operational metrics along the entire value chain and
and opportunities connected to climate change, as well as the environmental ones, are reported below.
Financial metrics
UM 2022 2021 2022-2021 %
billions of euros 13.9 17.3 3.4 -19.6
Ordinary EBITDA for low-carbon products,
services and technologies(1)
% of tot EBITDA 70.6 90.1 -19 -
billions of euros 13.3 12.3 1.05 8.5
Capex for low-carbon products,
services and technologies(2)
% of total Capex 92.1 93.9 -1.8 -
billions of euros 6.5 1.9 4.6 -
Revenues from coal plants(3)
% of total
4.6 2.2 2.4 -
Revenues
billions of euros 24.1 12.9 11.2 86.8
Revenues from thermal generation(3)
% of total
17.2 15.1 2.1 -
Revenues
14.3
billions of euros 1.6 1.4 0.2
Revenues from nuclear plants(3)
% of total
1.1 1.6 -0.5 -
Revenues
Debt ratio with sustainability criteria % 63 55 8 -
CO reference price €/ton 78.2 53.2 24.9 46.8
2
(1) 2021 figure has been restated to integrate the changes of gas margin due to a change of the control model.
(2) 2021 figure has been restated to consider the inclusion of Latin American retail business in Enel Grids.
(3) 2021 figure has been restated to consider the classification in the count “net results of discontinued operations” concerning the results from the business
activities performed in in Russia (disposed in the fourth quarter of 2022), Romania and Greece as they meet the requirements established in the international
accounting principle IFRS 5 for the classification of “discontinued operations”.
In 2022, Enel’s ordinary EBITDA associated with low-carbon With regard to the effects of climate change issues, the
emissions services and solutions was 13.9 billion euros, Group considers them an implicit element in the applica-
down 19.6% from 2021. The Capex dedicated to low-car- tion of the methodologies and models used to make esti-
bon emission technologies, services and solutions has in- mates in the valuation and/or measurement of certain ac-
creased as compared to 2021, reaching 13.3 billion euros, counting items. Furthermore, the Group has also taken into
equal to 92.1% of total Capex. account the impacts of climate change in the significant
judgments made by management. In this regard, the main
The percentage share of revenues from coal-fired plants items included in the Consolidated Financial Statements
increased, mainly due to the need to compensate for low for the year ended December 31, 2022 affected by the use
hydraulicity in Italy and Spain due to adverse weather con- of management’s estimates and judgments concern the
ditions that severely penalized hydroelectric generation in impairment of non-financial assets, bonds related to the
2022. Specifically, in 2022, revenues related to coal-fired energy transition, including those for decommissioning
plants correspond to 4.6% of the Group’s total revenues. and site restoration of certain power generation plants. For
further details please refer to Section 5. Climate Change
Enel’s strategy of promoting a sustainable financial mod- Disclosures in the 2022 Integrated Annual Report.
el has contributed to reaching 63% of debt related to the
sustainability objectives.
Operational metrics
302-1 EU1 EU2 EU3 EU11 EU30
Segment of the
electricity value chain UM 2022 2021 2022-2021 %
Net installed maximum capacity(1) GW 84.6 87.1
- of which renewables % 63.3 57.5 -
- of which thermoelectric % 32.8 38.7 -
- of which nuclear % 3.9 3.8 -
Net generation(2) TWh 227.8 207.1
- of which renewables % 49.4 48.9 -
GENERATION - of which thermoelectric % 39.0 39.6 -
- of which nuclear % 11.6 11.5 -
Additional indicators
Average thermoelectric park efficiency (%)(3) % 42.8 42.9 -0.1
Total direct fuel consumption Mtep 26.5 26.3 0.2 0.8
Digitalization
End users with active smart meters(4) no. 45,824,963 44,968,974 855,989 1.9
NETWORKS
Smart meters (coverage) % 63 60 3.0 -
Electrification, energy efficiency and
digitalization
Publicly owned charging points for electric
.000 22.6 18.1 4.5 24.9
mobility(5)
Electric buses .000 5.3 3.0 2.3 76.7
Smart public lighting mil 3.0 2.8 0.2 7.1
RETAIL
New services
Demand response capacity MW 9,004 7,713 1,291 16.7
Storage capacity MW 760 375 385 -
(1) Does not include managed capacity of 4.9 GW in 2022 and 3.3 GW in 2021.
(2) Does not include generation from managed capacity of 11.3 TWh in 2022 and 9.6 TWh in 2021.
(3) The value is calculated on the park's plants and is weighted on the production values.
(4) The figures for 2021 have been restated. Of which second-generation smart meters 25.2 million in 2022 and 23.5 million in 2021.
(5) KPIs changed from previous year, with focus on publicly owned infrastructure.
The net electricity generated by Enel in 2022 increased by in Spain and Chile. It should also be noted that the com-
5.2 TWh (+2.3%) compared to the value recorded in 2021, plete deconsolidation of the companies present in Russia
mainly due to higher generation from wind sources (+5.5 took place in 2022, which led to a decrease in net power
TWh) mainly in Brazil and North America, a higher contri- generated of 11.2 TWh for oil & gas and combined cycle
bution from coal-fired plants (+5.9 TWh) in Italy, and higher sources only.
generation from combined-cycle plants (+2.7 TWh) mainly
Net electricity generation by source (2022)
22.7% 23.9%
Hydroelectric Combined cycle
25.6% in 2021 23.2% in 2021
22.7% 23.9%
19.0% 11.6%
Hydroelectric Combined cycle
Wind Nuclear
25.6% in 2021 23.2% in 2021
17.0% in 2021 11.5% in 2021
2022
19.0% 11.6%
5.0% 8.7%
Wind Nuclear
Solar Coal
17.0 3% .5 in % 2 in0 2 21 021 Total 227.8 TWh 11. 65 .% 2% in i n2 0 22 01 21
2022
222.6 TWhin 2021
5.0% 8.7%
2.7% 6.4%
Solar Coal
Geothermal power and other Fuel oil and turbogas
3.5 2% .8 in % 2 in0 2 21 021 Total 227.8 TWh 6.2 1% 0 .in 2 %20 in2 1 2021
222.6 TWhin 2021
Total renewable sources: Total conventional sources:
2.7% 6.4%
49.4 50.6
% %
Geothermal power and other Fuel oil and turbogas
48.9% in 2021 51.1% in 2021
2.8% in 2021 10.2% in 2021
Total renewable sources: Total conventional sources:
49.4 50.6
% %
48.9% in 2021 51.1% in 2021
At the end of December 2022, Group’s total net installed mainly in North America, Brazil and Spain, and 2.6 GW of
maximum capacity was 84.6 GW, down by 2.5 GW com- new solar capacity, mainly in Chile, the United States, Spain
pared to 2021. In addition, Group’s net renewable installed and India.
capacity reached 53.6 GW, up by 3.5 GW from 2021, and In addition, as already mentioned for net power generated,
accounting for 63.3% of total net installed efficient power. all companies in Russia totaling 5.3 GW were deconsoli-
During the year , 1.8 GW of new wind capacity was installed, dated.
Net installed maxim3u3m.5 c%apacity (2022) 16.5%
Hydroelectric Combined cycle
32.0% in 2021 17.3% in 2021
33.5% 16.5%
18.6% 8.5%
Hydroelectric Combined cycle
Wind Fuel oil and turbogas
32.0% in 2021 17.3% in 2021
17.1% in 2021 13.5% in 2021
2022
18.6% 8.5%
10.1% 7.8%
Wind Fuel oil and turbogas
Solar Coal
17.1 7% .3 in % 2 in0 2 21 021 Total 84.6 GW 13. 75 .9% % in i n2 0 22 01 21
2022
87.1 GWin 2021
10.1% 7.8%
1.1% 3.9%
Solar Coal
Geothermal power and other Nuclear
7.3 1% .1 in % 2 in0 2 21 021 Total 84.6 GW 7.9 3% .8 in % 2 in0 2 21 021
87.1 GWin 2021
Total renewable sources: Total conventional sources:
1.1% 3.9%
63.3 36.7
% %
Geothermal power and other Nuclear
57.5% in 2021 42.5% in 2021
1.1% in 2021 3.8% in 2021
Total renewable sources: Total conventional sources:
63.3 36.7
% %
57.5% in 2021 42.5% in 2021
In 2022, Enel maintained a key role in developing new solu- mate change through levers such as the integration of
tions to accelerate the energy transition process through more renewable energy or an increase in energy efficien-
the development of 760 MW of storage capacity, increas- cy, continued being a priority for Enel also in 2022. In par-
ing the current GW of demand response by 51% compared ticular, in 2022 the total number of end users with active
to 2021. smart meters grew 1.9% as compared to the previous year,
The digitalization of the electricity grid, which has been reaching 45,824,963 in 2022.
identified as a key enabler able to positively influence cli-
Environmental metrics
302-3
The following table presents the environmental metrics re- “Conservation of natural capital” of 2022 Sustainability Re-
lated to climate change, in addition to the greenhouse gas port.
emissions previously described. Refer to the chapter on
UM 2022 2021 2022-2021 %
Specific withdrawal of freshwater(1) l/kWh 0.23 0.25 -0.02 -8.0
eq
Withdrawal of water in water stressed areas(1) (2) % 19.2 23.0 -3.7 -16.3
Generation with water withdrawal in water stressed areas(2) % 13.3 14.0 -0.70 -5.0
(1) The new target of reducing specific freshwater withdrawals, turning its attention to the most valuable and vulnerable water resource, testifies to Enel’s even
more explicit commitment to the protection of natural habitats and the needs of the community. In particular, the objective is in keeping with the reporting
and commitment requirements introduced by the new proposed EU EFRAG ESRS-E3 Water and Marine Resources standard, and with the environmental
impact (or pressure) priorities indicated for corporate analysis of nature-related risks and opportunities by the international TNFD and SBTN frameworks.
(2) The total value of process and closed-loop cooling water withdrawals for the year 2021 was recalculated following the refinement conducted in 2022 of the
way in which water withdrawn for cooling purposes at certain nuclear power plants in Spain was calculated.
Financial and operational targets
The table below shows the main operational objectives electricity value chain, in addition to the GHG emission re-
included in the 2023-2025 Strategic Plan, which reflect duction targets described in the previous section.
Enel’s role in combating climate change along the entire
Segment of the electricity
value chain Description of the goal UM 2025
Net installed maximum capacity(1) GW 79.9
- of which renewables % 76
- of which thermoelectric % 20
- of which nuclear % 4
Net generation(2) TWh 204
GENERATION
- of which renewables % 70
- of which thermoelectric % 17
- of which nuclear % 13
Digitalization
Smart meter mil 48.3
NETWORKS Smart meters (coverage) % ~80
Electrification, energy efficiency and digitalization
Publicly owned charging points for electric mobility(3) .000 31.4
Electric buses .000 12.965
Smart public lighting mil 3.3
MARKET New services
Demand response capacity GW 12.4
Storage behind the meter MW 352
(1) Does not include managed capacity and BESS, which are around 10 GW and about 5 GW by 2025, respectively.
(2) Does not include generation from managed capacity of approximately 25 TWh in 2025.
(3) KPI changed from previous year, with focus on publicly owned infrastructure.
•
In addition, the following targets have been set to 2030: demand response capacity: >20 GW (>2x compared to
•
renewable capacity out of the total: ~85% (~+20% from 2022);
•
2022); digitalized network customers: 100% (+37% compared to
•
gas sold: ~3 bcm (-70% from 2022); 2022).
Clean electrifi cation
Material topics (I level) Plan SDG
• Products and services
for electrifi cation and
digitalization
Double
•Customer centricity
materiality
• Infrastructure and
Networks
Below the 2022 results related to the targets of the previous 2022-2024 Sustainability Plan, the resulting progress and the tar-
gets of the 2023-2025 Sustainability Plan, which may be redefi ned, added to, or surpassed with respect to the previous Plan.
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
Development of additional renewable 5.2 GW of built renewable capacity(2) 21 GW additional renewable capacity
7 I
capacity and reduction of thermal in 2023-2025(3)
63.3% of installed renewable
13 capacity(1) E
capacity(4) -13% of conventional capacity in the
period 2023-2025
-6.0 GW of thermal capacity(1)
Energy production from renewable 49.4% 70% in 2025
7 I
sources(5)
13 E
S
T
Promoting the adoption of
I
the sustainable construction
site model (no. sustainable E
construction sites/total
S
construction sites)
T
100% renewable construction
sites(6)
4 6 100% hydroelectric, geothermal
and thermal sites
7 8
Sustainable construction site Target outdated as it is considered
12 13 achieved
14 15 Monitoring the effi cacy of the Monitoring the effi cacy of the
I
adoption of sustainable practices adoption of sustainable practices
(no. practices adopted/no. practic- (no. practices adopted/no. practices E
es defi ned in the CSV Plan) defi ned in the CSV Plan)
S
95% renewable construction sites(6) 95% renewable construction sites(6)
T
in 2023
75% hydroelectric, geothermal and
thermal sites 80% hydroelectric, geothermal and
thermal construction sites in 2023
(1) Includes nuclear.
(2) Includes managed capacity. The value of renewable capacity built in 2022 includes 0.4 GW of BESS.
(3) The target includes managed and BESS capacity for about 4 GW in the period 2023-2025.
(4) Consolidated perimeter. From the calculation of the percentage of renewable installed capacity for the purpose of the Sustainability-Linked Financing
Framework, 531.1 MW of purchased capacity from power plants acquired by the Group was excluded in accordance with the contractual documentation of
the individual instruments.
(5) Excludes generation from managed capacity, equal to 11 TWh in 2022 and 25 TWh in 2025.
(6) Except hydroelectric and geothermal.
Goals Progress
I Industrial E Environmental S Social
G Governance T Technological New Redefi ned Outdated Not in line In line Achieved
selbawener
fo
tnemeganam
dna
noisnapxE
Clean
electrifi cation
N.A. = not applicable
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
N.A. N.A. Sustainable Plant Index -
I
Monitoring the effi cacy
of sustainable practices E
implementation
S
6% in 2023
T
Promoting the adoption of
I
the sustainable plant model
(sustainable plants/ total E
eligible plants)
S
100%
4 6 T
Target outdated as it is considered
7 8
Sustainable plant achieved
12 13 Improving the adoption of
I
14 15 the sustainable plant model
(practices implemented in the E
year/practices implemented in
S
the previous year)
10.3% T
Target outdated as, after an
initial novelty phase of the model
in which it was import ant to
maximize its adoption to enable its
internalization, the model is now
known and applied and the focus is
on measuring and maximizing the
results of applications
selbawener
fo
tnemeganam
dna
noisnapxE
Read more
The Sustainable Plant Index summarizes the sustainability of a plant on the basis of envi-
ronmental and social factors.
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
SAIDI (min) 231 ~150 in 2025(7)
7 I
9 E
S
SAIFI (no.) 2.6 2.1 in 2025
7 I
9 E
S
Innovation and digitalization of the 45.8 mil end users with active 48.3 mil end users with
9 I
distribution networks smart meters active smart meters in 2025
11 E
G
T
212 thousand new connections 748 thousand new
I
connections in the period
7 2023-2025 E
New producer connections (Italy and
9
Spain)
4.2 GW of power 25.3 GW of power in the
13 I
period 2023-2025
E
179 thousand connections in rural 499 thousand connections
I
and suburban areas in rural and suburban areas
in the period 2023-2025 E
Rural and suburban electrifi cation
S
7 - grid extension and microgrid
solutions(8)
13 690 thousand benefi ciaries in rural 1.9 mil benefi ciaries in rural
I
and suburban areas and suburban areas in the
period 2023-2025 E
S
Cabling ratio (km of cable line/total 60.7% 60.8% in 2025
7 I
km of line)
9 E
S
Network losses (Italy) 4.7% 4.7% in 2025
7 I
9 E
Network losses (Europe) 5.8% N.A. 5.6% in 2025
7 I
9 E
-nam
lanoitarepO
tnempoleved
dna
tnemevorpmi
sdirG
sdirg
fo
tnemega
Read more
Rural and suburban electrifi cation projects adopt grid extension or microgrid solutions
in rural areas. Parallel to this, we work for the process of normalizing connections in large
megacities in Latin America (suburban electrifi cation), where we support the resolution
of commercial losses related to irregular connections and where we work for regulated
access to electricity that ensures the necessary security conditions for everyone.
(7) The 2030 target is ~100 minutes.
(8) The 2030 target is 1.8 mil connections and 7.1 mil benefi ciaries. The scope includes Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Peru and Romania.
Goals Progress
I Industrial E Environmental S Social
G Governance T Technological New Redefi ned Outdated Not in line In line Achieved
N.A. = not applicable
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
Automatic payments 34.7% 37.2% in 2025
9 I
(% payments through direct debit/
11 total payments) S
T
E-billing 30.4% 40.0% in 2025
9 I
(% bills issued and delivered
11 paperless/total bills) S
T
Digital clients 37.0% 50.0% in 2025
9 I
(% customers registered via web or
11 app/total customers) S
T
Commercial claims 212 200 in 2023
9 I
(no./10k customers)
11 S
T
Inclusive activities, products and Analysis of the customer Analysis of the customer experience
9 I
services - Customer experience experience for customers with for customers with disabilities and
10 disabilities and fi nal qualitative fi nal qualitative assessment S
assessment:
11 •
country-level analysis (Italy) of
vulnerable customer categories
carried out for Doxa;
•
analysis of the Social Inclusion
Boosting Program with the
Disability Inclusion Community:
in Colombia on architectural
lighting; in Brazil on electric
buses; in Italy on Homix, on
Enel X Pay, on JuicePole and on
JuiceBox
Inclusive activities, products and 10 inclusive products and services 36 inclusive products and services in
9 I
services - Products and services (including standard charging points the period 2023-2025
10 for electric vehicles also prepared S
for people with disabilities; “Un
11
pannello in più con Legambiente”;
Confi a for energy povert y in Spain;
adaptation of electric buses for
people with disabilities)
Inclusive activities, products and 111 shops and/or call centers that 35 shops and/or call centres that
9 I
services - Slow shopping use slow shopping methods in Italy use slow shopping methods in the
10 and Chile period 2023-2025 S
11
Inclusive activities, products and 238 Enel people in our shops 500 Enel people in our shops
9 I
services - Training trained to welcome customers with trained to welcome customers with
10 disabilities in Romania, Peru and disabilities in the period 2023-2025 S
Colombia
11
snoitaler
remotsuc
fo
ytilauQ
dna
snoitaler
remotsuc
fo
ytilauQ
sdeen
rieht
fo
noitcafsitas
dna
sdeen
rieht
fo
noitcafsitas
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
Real-time demand response 8.5 GW 12.4 GW in 2025(9)
7 I
9 E
13 S
T
Storage behind the meter 75 MW 352 MWin 2025
9 I
13 E
S
T
Charging points(10) 22.6 thousand public owned 31.4 thousand public
9 I
charging points owned charging points in
11 2025 E
13 G
T
Lighting points 3.0 mil 3.3 mil in 2025
7 9 I
11 13 E
T
Electric buses 5,321 electric buses Around 13 thousand in 2025
9 I
11 E
13 T
Digitalization of services for N.A. N.A. 4,000 municipalities
9 I
municipalities (YoUrban platform) connected in 2025
11 E
13 G
T
rof
secivres
dna
seigolonhceT
noitacfi
irtcele
remotsuc
Read more
YoUrban is a platform for monitoring and managing the urban infrastructure ecosystem,
that integrates services (including geolocation, real time monitoring) and assets such as
lighting points, electric vehicle charging points, and environmental sensors. Sustainable
urban development models such as CO City Index, Circular City Index, 15Min City Index are
2
also available on the platform.
(9) The 2030 target is >20 GW.
(10) KPI changed from previous year, with a focus on public owned infrastructure.
Goals Progress
I Industrial E Environmental S Social
G Governance T Technological New Redefi ned Outdated Not in line In line Achieved
N.A. = not applicable
Clean electrification
2-6 EU3 EU4
The energy sector underwent a profound precisely with individuals and households
revolution in 2022 that required a twofold who, with the choices they make, can help
acceleration: diversifying and ensuring accelerate the energy transition, not only
security of supply at predictable prices, by purchasing energy generated from
as well as continuing on the path taken in renewable sources rather than fossil fuels,
achieving an increasingly sustainable energy but also by becoming “prosumers”, that is,
mix. generators of energy as well as consumers,
To reduce the dependence on raw materials, through, for example, the new Renewable
we are promoting greater diversification of Energy Communities (RECs).
the supply chain of key technologies for the Electrification of final energy consumption
transition, including investments to locate is confirmed as the optimal solution
photovoltaic panel production in Europe, to decarbonize the economy, make
particularly with the 3SUN Gigafactory in transportation more efficient, reduce
Sicily, whose generation capacity will grow environmental impacts and digitalize
15 times over current output, reaching 3,000 our homes and cities. It must therefore
MW per year in 2024. be understood as an essential tool to
Electrification is the common strategic achieve the energy transition and shape
horizon toward the progressive a sustainable development model. We
decarbonization of the economy, which continue to lead the development of
cannot disregard the efficiency and innovative technologies that make the use
digitalization of infrastructure and, in of clean electricity increasingly affordable
particular, distribution networks. As a global and widespread in homes, businesses and
player distributing to both rural areas and government entities, while accelerating
some of the largest megacities on the the digitalization of services for greater
planet, we are committed to developing efficiency in the use of energy itself.
a unique integrated operating model to In addition, 2022 saw the birth of the Enel X
manage the transformation of the traditional Way Business Line, fully dedicated to electric
distribution business model and the mobility and in particular the expansion of
evolution of electricity grids into resilient, charging infrastructure for electric vehicles,
participatory and sustainable platforms. with the goal of meeting the rapidly growing
Electrification is also the lever through market, the development of advanced
which customers can participate first-hand charging technologies and flexible solutions
in the change taking place, choosing and aimed at improving customer experience
tapping into the benefits of sustainable and supporting the electrification of
solutions that are affordable, innovative, transportation for consumers, businesses
flexible and digital. The change starts and cities.
63.3 66.8
% million
RENEWABLE CAPACITY ELECTRICITY AND GAS
ON TOTAL CAPACITY CUSTOMERS
57.5% in 2021 69.3 million in 2021 -3.7%
2,024,038
km
GRIDS
2,233,368 in 2021 -9.4%
Commitments to electrification:
Enel’s commitment includes several objectives
Enel’s Energy Compact underpinning the electrification strategy, such as
increasing renewable capacity and demand response,
reducing GHG emissions in line with the 1.5 °C scenario
Enel is among the companies that participated (certified by SBTi), installing new electric vehicle charging
from the beginning in the United Nations High-Level points, and committing to achieving new connections
Dialogue on Energy (HLDE), which led to the launch of a in rural and suburban areas in the countries where the
global roadmap to set specific goals in accelerating the Group maintains a presence. The commitments reported
energy transition and ensuring access to affordable, in the Energy Compact are in line with the Strategic and
reliable, sustainable and modern energy systems for all Sustainability Plans so as to ensure transparency and
by 2030. traceability in the Group’s path to clean electrification.
In order to monitor the overall progress of the more The Group’s commitment is complemented by:
•
than 200 Energy Compacts launched to date and the Energy Compact for the electrification of Sardinia,
counting over USD 600 billion in investments, in 2022 which aims to phase out coal, increase generation from
the UN launched the first data collection process to renewable sources, and electrify final demand;
•
monitor the progress of SDG 7 commitments, the Enel Chile Energy Compact, promoted in collaboration
results of which were published in the Annual Progress with the Universidad del Desarrollo and the Government
Report 2022. Commitments to date have resulted of the Santiago Metropolitan Region, with the goal of
in USD 46 billion of investment, providing better electrifying the entire bus fleet by 2030. In addition,
access to electricity and clean, sustainable cooking for efforts will be made to accelerate the replacement of
6 million and 14 million people worldwide respectively; wood-burning stoves in residential, commercial and
88 GW of renewable energy capacity has been government buildings with electric heating systems,
installed and 2,450 GWh of electricity will be saved from the 10,000 substitutions made by Enel to date, to
between 2021 and 2022 through energy efficiency. over 60,000 planned by 2030.
Sardinia: the perfect island for a sustainable model
Thanks to the many renewable resources
on the island, Sardinia can act as a driving force
for electrification and sustainability.
Sardinia has all the characteristics to become Based on estimates of Sardinia’s energy needs, it is pre-
a green model for the energy transition of the dicted that by 2040 it will be possible to reduce the use of
near future. An ambitious goal to which our Group coal and natural gas to zero, using only renewable sourc-
intends to contribute, powering the entire Mediterranean es. Most of the installations will be photovoltaic and wind
island with the abundant renewable resources available plants: together with the existing hydroelectric power
there. Sardinia has geographical, economic and demo- plants and storage systems, therefore, the aim is to have an
graphic characteristics that differentiate it from other Italian energy mix that can guarantee continuity in the availability
regions: its insularity has limited the development of energy of electricity. With the acceleration of enabling regulatory
infrastructure, to the extent that it has been excluded from factors and authorization time lines, within a few years this
methanization. On the other hand, natural resources such scenario will bring concrete benefits for people’s health
as wind, water and solar energy are present in abundance and especially the environment, making Sardinia an energy
due to the advantageous location, making it possible to cre- benchmark model for green development, potentially rep-
ate plants capable of producing large amounts of energy. licable elsewhere. The public will also be the main players in
In line with the Enel Group’s nationwide commitment, the this transaction through a model of distributed generation
sustainability goal can only be to reduce to zero the use on the ground and also active through participation in en-
of both coal and natural gas, starting with the promotion ergy communities.
of alternative, green solutions. When completed, the
electrification process will at the same time promote sus- Thanks to the creation of partnerships and agreements, in
tainable tourism through the spread of environmentally which the Enel Group will play an active role, the state-of-
friendly vehicles by land and sea as fossil-fueled means the-art facilities and innovative infrastructure will also allow
of transportation gradually disappear. In this regard, Enel for significant development of the island from an econom-
X Way has signed a memorandum of understanding with ic point of view, with the creation of new jobs and the ar-
the Region of Sardinia that entails the installation of 1,200 rival of investments.
charging points in the island’s urban centers to support
the energy transition.
Renewable energies
EU1 EU2
proceeded. In September, we shut down the last coal-fired
112.4
TWh unit at the Bocamina power plant, decommissioning the en-
NET RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY GENERATION tire coal-fired fleet 18 years ahead of the 2040 targets set
in Chile’s National Decarbonization Plan. In Spain, the Teruel
108.8 TWh in 2021 +3.3%
thermal power plant was also dismantled with the demolition
of the cooling towers. For more details, please refer to the
Despite the difficult geopolitical context and the energy crisis chapters “Zero emissions ambition” and “Our commitment to
triggered by the war in Ukraine, the Group generated around a just transition: leaving no one behind” in this Report.
124 TWh(1) of electricity from renewable sources in 2022 (119 As of the end of December 2022, the Group’s net renew-
TWh in 2021), of which more than 50% (66 TWh) from wind able installed maximum capacity reached 53.6 GW,(2) up by
and solar power. We installed and commissioned new ca- 3.5 GW from 2021, and corresponding to 63.3% of the total
pacity of 5,223 MW, up from 5,120 MW in 2021, thanks to net installed maximum capacity. This achievement enabled
more than 80 plants divided between solar and wind power. Enel to meet the target set in all those financial instruments
In addition, we reached 387 MW of battery storage, an ele- related to attaining a renewable installed capacity percent-
ment of flexibility that is becoming increasingly strategic in age in excess of or equal to 60%.(3) For further details, please
the energy transition process we are currently experiencing. refer to the chapter “Sustainability-linked finance according
In 2022, the process of shutting down coal-fired power plants to Enel” in this document.
THE SUSTAINABLE SITE principles of CSV, circular economy and innovation, based
on a deep knowledge of the context in which we operate.
AND PLANT MODEL
The use of local labor for construction activities and actions
The Design and Site models of the sustainable plant taken to maximize the recycling of waste produced and
were created to integrate sustainability into the business reduce water consumption are examples of the application
along the value chain (phases of Business Development, of the models. Specifically, the sustainable Design and Site
Engineering & Construction, Operation & Maintenance, pillar applies to the construction phase of a plant up to its
Repurposing) and are based on the principles of Creating completion, while the Sustainable plant pillar applies to
Shared Value (CSV) to forge synergies between the needs of the Operation & Maintenance (O&M) phase, i.e. the plant’s
the business and those of the region. These are constantly operations and generation activities. In 2022, the sustainable
evolving pillars centered on best practices and procedures Design and Site model was applied at all construction
that aim to mitigate the impact of our plants on the local sites, and the sustainable practices under the model were
areas, increase and foster collaboration with communities adopted at 75% at the hydroelectric, geothermal and
and generate efficiency by promoting and applying the thermal sites and 95% at the remaining renewable sites.
According to studies by the IEA (International Energy Agen- loan agreement with the European Union for the transfor-
cy), the pace of growth of renewables must increase year mation of 3SUN into a solar panel Gigafactory in Catania,
after year. They must support the electrification of sectors Sicily, Italy, which will become Europe’s largest factory for
such as private transport or domestic heating, which until the production of high-performance double-sided photo-
now have been almost entirely based on fossil fuels. voltaic modules. The Gigafactory will help raise efficiency
We have therefore set ourselves the ambitious goal of gen- standards in the market while improving the reliability and
erating 100% energy from renewable sources by 2040. sustainability of the panels manufactured, and will make an
important contribution to the growth and maintenance of
To achieve this goal, we must also invest in the supply a solar power industry in Europe.
chain. In April 2022, Enel Green Power signed a subsidized
(1) 124 TWh equals about 50% of total net production and excludes generation from managed capacity of 11 TWh in 2022.
(2) Including managed renewable capacity and BESS in 2022, 59 GW of installed capacity or 66% of total capacity was reached.
(3) From the calculation of the percentage of renewable installed capacity for the purpose of the Sustainability-Linked Financing Framework, 531.1 MW of pur-
chased capacity from power plants acquired by the Group was excluded in accordance with the contractual documentation of the individual instruments.
3SUN Gigafactory: the future
of energy takes shape in Catania
A hub of technological excellence for energy
self-dependence
Our 3SUN photovoltaic module factory in Catania,
established in 2010 and continuously growing, is
preparing to become a true Gigafactory. By July 2024,
3SUN will see its annual generation capacity grow 15-fold,
from the current 200 MW to 3 GW, becoming the largest
photovoltaic panel factory in Europe. We expect an
investment of around 600 million euros, of which almost
118 million euros from the EU Innovation Fund, which
identified TANGO, i.e. iTaliAN Giga factOry, as one of the
seven initiatives selected. The project has been included With these new recruits, 3SUN’s team, which already in-
in funding requests for Italy’s National Recovery and cludes more than 200 resources, will be significantly ex-
Resilience Plan and, if awarded, the total project funding panded to around 900 employees in total. Not only will the
could reach up to 188 million euros. Gigafactory increase direct employment, it will also gen-
The selection process to recruit more than 500 secondary erate a total of 1,000 indirect jobs, including current ones,
school graduates for technical and operational positions by 2024.
in the areas of generation, maintenance, auxiliary services,
product quality and plant management has just begun. In
2022, 50 graduates were hired and the process to select
another 100 is currently underway.
Digitalization of grids
3-3 EU4 DMA EU (former EU7)
507.7 231 0.7
TWh min million beneficiaries
ELECTRICITY TRANSPORTED SAIDI NEW CONNECTIONS IN RURAL
ON THE GROUP’S DISTRIBUTION GRID 243 min in 2021 -5.2% AND SUBURBAN AREAS
510.6 TWh in 2021 -0.6% 0,8 million in 2021 -12.5%
Electricity distribution grids by country and region
High voltage Medium voltage Low voltage
km 2,024,038 40,566 717,992 1,265,480
2% 35% 63%
Europe and North America 5% 27% 68%
Iberia 6% 36% 58%
Italy -(1) 31% 69%
Latin America 4% 50% 46%
(1) In Italy there are almost 20 km of high-voltage grid.
The grid is not an infrastructure for its own sake, but en- Over the past year, we have entirely rethought the value
ables the interconnection of the different players in the chain by applying the concept of Sustainable by Design,
energy market. Supply electricity is reliable only if it is redesigning the production and end-of-life management
guaranteed by a grid that, through innovation and digiti- processes of grid assets with the aim of decreasing raw
zation, is capable of ensuring the completion of the ener- material consumption, maximizing economic value and re-
gy transition through the electrification of uses. ducing environmental impacts, including greenhouse gas
Aware of its strategic role, we now have one of the most (GHG) emissions.
innovative and digitalized electricity infrastructures in A Sustainable Reference Model tool has been developed
the world. We also launched an action plan called Grid which, integrated into our digitalized systems, makes it
Futurability®, a comprehensive, customer-oriented in- possible to monitor the number and type of solutions im-
dustrial approach aimed at renewing, strengthening and plemented at all active or opening sites and to measure
expanding the Enel Group’s grids in the coming years. their impacts, along four lines: decarbonization, social,
Our aim is to provide a more resilient, participative and environmental and circularity. The score associated with
sustainable grid, one which can anticipate, through an each solution makes it possible both to identify the most
investment roadmap, the needs of stakeholders and virtuous sites (ex post evaluation) and to carry out simula-
harness innovative technological developments to meet tions (ex ante evaluation) to facilitate the choice of solu-
them. tions to be implemented.
In order to make the value chain circular, we also defined
The grid is key to achieving decarbonization targets. In Grid Mining & Zero Waste strategies, to review the end-
2022, we presented the Net-Zero strategy for grid activ- of-life management processes of grid assets in a more
ity to counter direct emissions inherent in the infrastruc- sustainable way and identify New Life Cycle practices (re-
ture, acting on digitization, remote operations, the use cycling and reuse of materials at the end of their life). In
of electric vehicles for work, measures to protect bio- this regard, in order to ensure complete tracking of the
diversity and reducing technical grid losses. In addition, materials contained in grid assets, we have developed the
we are engaging suppliers, equipment manufacturers “Digital Product Passport” in our systems, which enables
and construction companies in our supply chain to re- us to monitor any materials considered critical, for which
duce indirect emissions and implement more sustainable it might be useful to evaluate an alternative, but also to
processes and network components, such as SF -free define ex ante the end-of-life reuse scenarios. Having an
6
switchgear, vegetable oils for transformers and environ- integrated and digitalized tracking system along the en-
mentally friendly or standard cables for sustainable con- tire value chain is the driving force toward the ambition to
struction sites. open our “mine” (grid mining) to the outside world as well,
making it available to other companies or different sec- rials to traditional cement with a high clinker content with
tors in order to involve their respective production chains a high impact in terms of avoided emissions of up to 80%.
and feed new markets for raw and secondary materials, Meanwhile, by way of application of the grid mining strat-
promoting the development of the area and the saving of egy, experiments continue on the reuse of composite
virgin materials, and creating new job opportunities relat- material from wind turbines for the production of certain
ed to waste material recovery initiatives while minimizing grid components and on the identification of solutions
environmental impacts. More details can be found in the for the reuse of wood waste from logging near overhead
chapter “Circular economy” in this document. lines.
Achieving such ambitious goals necessarily requires joint In 2021 Gridspertise was established, a new industrial
multi-stakeholder action, involving suppliers, partners, and commercial entity that offers innovative, flexible,
competitors, industry grids, etc. In the spirit of Open sustainable and integrated solutions to electricity and
Power, we have: distribution operators (DSOs), presenting itself to the
•
founded the Open Power Grids Association, which market as a reliable partner to boost the digital trans-
aims to share and develop grid-related technologies formation of power grids across the industry ecosystem
and methodologies with industry stakeholders in order as part of the energy transition. The priority areas for
to accelerate the adoption of safer, more efficient and action are:
•
sustainable solutions for faster achievement of the re- meter and grid edge digitalization, focused on in-
quirements towards the zero-emission ambition; creasing customer engagement and stakeholder par-
•
launched specific challenges on the crowd sourcing ticipation through smart meters and grid edge tech-
platform openinnovability.com, covering, among other nologies that also enable engagement in electricity
aspects: prosumer markets;
– •
a new concept for the design of the primary and digitalization of grid infrastructure, aimed at increas-
secondary substations, as well as for the smart me- ing the intelligence and flexibility of power grids to ac-
ter installed in end user’ homes, whose development celerate full-scale digitalization, increasing efficiency,
and large-scale adoption will lead to a significant re- reliability and service quality and supporting DSOs to
duction in environmental impacts; manage the challenges facing network operations;
– •
the identification of low-emission gensets to be digitalization of field operations, to increase oper-
used for emergency management or in all cases ational efficiency thanks to innovative solutions for
where they are needed for the operation and main- planning and operational processes and, at the same
tenance of the grid; time, to increase the safety of internal and external
–
alternative technologies for the construction phase operators in the field.
of traditionally concrete assets such as 3D printing. In October 2022, an agreement was signed for the sale
In addition, tests were conducted on a new design of dis- of 50% of Gridspertise Srl to the international private
tribution infrastructure supports using alternative mate- equity fund CVC Capital Partners Fund VIII (CVC).
Record distributed renewable
This gives us a global cumulative capacity of 65.7 GW,(3)
generation capacity with 5.6 GW equivalent to approximately 1.4 million producers and
prosumers. These results were achieved thanks to
connected to its grids in 2022
the increasing capacity to accommodate distributed
renewable generation (hosting capacity) and the high level
By 2022, we will have connected to our grids a record of digitalization of the distribution networks operated by
nearly 5.6 GW(1) of distributed renewable generation Enel.
capacity equivalent to more than 400 thousand
producers and prosumers worldwide, including more than For further details, see section “Renewable energies“ in
300 thousand in Europe and the rest in Latin America.(2) this chapter.
(1) Including about 300 MW corresponding to Enel Goiás in Brazil, sold at the end of December 2022.
(2) Including about 35,000 producers and prosumers added by Enel Goiás in Brazil, sold at the end of December 2022.
(3) Including about 700 MW corresponding to Enel Goiás in Brazil, sold at the end of December 2022.
Electrification of uses
3-3 EU3 DMA EU (former EU23)
321.1 212
TWh
ELECTRICITY SOLD COMPLAINTS (NO./10 THOUSAND
CUSTOMERS)
309.4 TW in 2021 +3.8%
22.6 45.8
thousand million
OWNED PUBLIC CHARGING POINTS END USERS WITH ACTIVE SMART METERS
18.1 thousand in 2021 +24.9% 45.2 million in 2021 +1,5%
Customers Electricity market Gas market
Total no. 60,225,898 6,558,997
Italy no. 21,382,665 4,581,245
Iberia no. 10,545,281 1,798,737
Rest of Europe and North America no. 2,905,352 178,993
Latin America no. 25,392,600 22
The final number of energy and gas customers was close
to 67 million in 2022, down slightly from 2021, while energy
sales amounted to 321.1 TWh in 2022 (309.4 TWh in 2021).
760 8.5
MW GW
STORAGE DEMAND RESPONSE
375 MW in 2021 7.7 GW in 2021 +9.9%
Customer centricity
The leadership of a company like Enel necessarily passes resilience in process management (activation of new
through customer care and attention to quality service, services, billing, payments and credit, customer focus)
aspects that refer not only to the supply of electricity and/ and digitalization.
•
or natural gas, but also and above all to the intangible as- making them more aware with offers geared towards in-
pects of the service perceived by the customer. creasing awareness of their consumption, different time
slots, rewards for reducing consumption compared to
We aim to maximize value for customers on a daily basis: the past, clear and simple communication;
• •
through a robust business model that focuses on the proactively managing their needs;
•
continuous improvement of efficiency, effectiveness and accompanying them towards electrification.
Listen actively
Deeply understanding our customers and treating every- customer satisfaction and happiness, as well as analyzing
one with respect and kindness, taking their needs to heart feedback to integrate the customer’s point of view into the
and solving them with concrete solutions. We have con- overall management of business processes.
solidated activities focused on measuring and monitoring
Make life easier
Adopt an understandable language and always keep language, free of technicalities. To this end, we launched
promises, respecting your customers’ time and always the Plain Language project, aimed at simplifying the com-
working efficiently. munication language used through the different channels
In order to simplify the experience of our customers, in of customer interaction. In Spain, the new global app was
2022 we developed a specific platform to standardize launched to offer a higher level of customer experience.
and optimize internal processes, aware that in order to These actions have improved the efficiency of operations
be able to offer efficient solutions to our customers, we with a major impact on reducing complaints and optimiz-
must first simplify ourselves, also by using comprehensible ing operating costs.
Build the future
Accelerating electrification, anticipating customers’ needs Enel also focuses on the future, through open and sus-
and offering sustainable solutions for families and busi- tainable innovation partnering with start-ups to engage
nesses, accompanying them with honesty and determina- customers towards a digital profile, standardize processes,
tion to earn their trust. personalize the service and ensure transparent and reli-
Data-driven decision-making, an agile approach to design, able information. We involve customers in the testing and
customer centricity based on inclusiveness and accessi- co-design of new services, including through neurosci-
bility, digitalization and simplification are the levers to gen- ence and biofeedback tests in collaboration with universi-
erate value for customers and the Company. ties and research centers.
Over the past few years, new payment methods have been We put customers at the center of the energy transition,
introduced, digital channels have been strengthened, and offering a comprehensive product portfolio, commodity
customers have been provided with tools to control their and beyond commodity, and a unique customer experi-
consumption and improve energy efficiency, with a view to ence that ensures no one is left behind.
encouraging their participation in the Net-Zero transition.
Customer satisfaction
2-29 3-3 417-1
“On a scale of 0 to 10, would you recommend Enel to your We complement NPS, monitoring transactional aspects
family and friends?” This simple question is the basis for aimed at detecting overall satisfaction during some of the
the Net Promoter Score (NPS), which allows us to measure most sensitive phases of the customer experience (such
customer satisfaction globally through simple and imme- as activation completion, contact center interaction, bill
diately understandable data. It is calculated, in a range delivery, etc.). We survey our customers by e-mail to mea-
from -100 to +100, as the percentage of “promoters” sure their level of Customer Satisfaction (CSAT), using an
(score of 9 or 10 out of 10) minus the percentage of “de- international standard that is based on the question “On
tractors” (score between 0 and 6 out of 10). Customers are a scale of 1 to 5, how satisfied are you with the ‘moment
interviewed by e-mail twice a year to maximize responses of truth’”?(4) The total is calculated as the average of all re-
and to monitor trends over time. sponses received. During 2022, CSAT survey coverage was
(4) Significant events in the relationship between customer and Company (e.g. completion of activation, interaction with the contact center, delivery of the
utility bill, etc.) that determine the customer’s opinion and evaluation of the service.
completed in Italy and Spain (30 “moments of truth” per ues and insights – now integrated into the operational
Country), is ongoing in Brazil (8 “moments of truth”) and is processes of Activation, Billing, Credit and Collection and
about to be launched in 2023 in most other markets. Customer Care – 2022 saw Enel achieve a solid increase in
Thanks to the continuous feedback from the customer Global Net Promoter Score (weighted average of all NPS
base, the dedicated Customer Happiness team and the values at country level), from -2.8 in December 2021 to
constant monitoring of happiness and satisfaction val- +5.6 in December 2022.
Complaints management
2-25 2-26 2-29 3-3
In 2022, guidelines on the complaints monitoring and clas- resolved immediately (First Contact Resolution) and there-
sification process were implemented in all countries where fore requires further work by the Complaints Back Office.
we operate, in order to maximize service quality and in- In addition, we have worked to standardize the monitoring
crease customer satisfaction, in accordance with appli- and quality control of complaints management with ho-
cable laws, regulations and governance rules. Our aim is mogeneous operating methods to make the performance
the convergence of the current processes towards a com- of the Group’s different countries of presence comparable,
mon, effective and efficient model, through continuous also thanks to the creation of a global platform that enables
performance monitoring and the development of internal monitoring of indicators and trends while at the same time
benchmarking, aimed at highlighting a non-conformity on ensuring the correct classification of complaints handled.
an existing product/service/functionality, which cannot be
Focus on vulnerable groups
2-29 3-3 DMA EU (former EU23)
We want to remain attentive to the needs of citizens, im- to pay electricity and gas bills, thus allowing equal access
proving and maintaining access to electricity in the most to energy. For further details on initiatives dedicated to vul-
disadvantaged areas and among the poorest populations. nerable customers, please refer to the “Value for Disabili-
All the countries in which the Group operates in fact pro- ty” project in the “Managing human rights” chapter of this
vide forms of support, often linked to state initiatives, Report.
which make it easier for certain sections of the population
Transparent relations
3-3 417-1 DMA EU (former EU24)
In line with its commitments to mitigate the effects of cli- By leveraging state-of-the-art technology standards, tele-
mate change, our Group has intensified the process of phone customer service in Chile, Colombia and Peru was
digitalizing customer relations. standardized. Thanks to a global control center, it is pos-
During 2022, digital services were further expanded, in- sible to monitor the flow of calls and manage their routing
cluding the promotion of digital bills and payment chan- to available operators in order to minimize waiting time for
nels with the possibility of flexible installment plans. our customers. In addition, the operating methods, de-
The emphasis was placed on developing and marketing fined at global level, tend to the highest quality standards,
a digital solution with simpler and more transparent bills. standardizing the “tone of voice” and style of handling
In 2022, thanks to e-billing, 30% of bills globally was sent customer issues.
electronically. This not only reduces the costs of paper, Thanks to a data-driven approach and continuous bench-
printing and delivery of traditional bills, but also the CO marking of best practices, both from energy companies
2
emissions associated with all these activities. and other leading digital industries, the following three
“Customer Centric Behaviors” have been defined in order optimize satisfaction, provide more stability in securing
to offer our customers simple, innovative, sustainable, fast the Company’s market share and give more support to
and effective solutions, through a clear language that is pricing policies.
accessible to everyone:
•
listen actively, Enel complies with current customer privacy regulations
•
make life easier, in all the countries where it operates. We also strive to
•
build the future. monitor third-party companies that may be in a position
The focus on Customer Happiness takes shape when we to use the personal data of customers. To this end, ded-
call into question all those emotional factors that, par- icated clauses are included in contracts with partners
allel to the more rational ones related to the choice and who use personal data to carry out specific activities, for
“confirmation” of a brand, are built on a more human in- example sales services or customer happiness surveys.
teraction in relation to the brand and its advocates. We Customer data is an expression of the individual’s per-
want to exceed our client’s expectations by optimally sonality and identity, and must therefore be treated with
balancing the ratio of costs incurred against benefits re- due caution and guarantees. Enel considers personal data
ceived, thereby increasing the likelihood of a more stable to be a shared and corporate asset at the same time. For
and lasting relationship. Enhancing the perception of our this reason, we have appointed a Data Protection Officer
work with an effective and efficient service leads to the who aims to guarantee full respect for the privacy of all
building of a long-lasting relationship. Not only that: by the individuals with whom we interact. For further details,
focusing our energies on Customer Happiness we also see the “Sound governance” chapter of this document.
Energy-saving commercial offers,
products and services
3-3 DMA EU (former EU24)
As a result of rising energy prices, the topic of energy sav- on a balcony or on the façade of a building at a window,
ing has become even more important in 2022, and in all allowing the energy generated by the sun to contribute
countries where we operate, efforts have been stepped to the home’s energy needs, saving up to 20% on energy
up to make energy efficiency solutions available that can bills. Heat pumps use thermal energy from air or water for
guarantee customers savings in terms of both consump- heating and cooling and are up to four times more energy
tion and CO emissions. From household appliances to efficient than the best boilers, saving around 40% on utility
2
smart home solutions, from home services to heating bills. Another product that is of great importance for ener-
and air-conditioning systems, from solar-powered sys- gy freedom is rooftop photovoltaics with a storage system:
tems to charging infrastructures for electric cars, solu- it harnesses solar energy to generate electricity, saving
tions have been developed to help save energy, time and money on electricity bills through self-consumption and
money. Among the proposed solutions we find Homix, the energy storage. In fact, the system stores in batteries the
smart home solution to manage temperature, lighting and excess electricity generated by the photovoltaic system
security easily and intelligently in the home, optimizing during the day, making it available during the night when
consumption on the basis of the habits and needs of the the system is not generating, thus significantly reducing
family. Induction hobs that replace traditional gas cookers energy drawn from the grid and consequently costs on the
and enable the cooking of food in less time, with almost bill.
twice the energy efficiency of gas cookers, greater safe- In 2022, Enel X installed a total of about 73,000 Smart
ty and significant CO savings. Enel X Sun Plug&Play is the Home products and more than 5,000 photovoltaic prod-
2
innovative flat photovoltaic system that can be installed ucts that contribute to energy savings and efficiency.
From need to solution,
customer-driven change
3-3 DMA EU (former EU24)
Encouraging the active participation of customers in the use of clean electricity increasingly affordable and wide-
transition, the development of new services, a better un- spread in homes (B2C), businesses (B2B) and the public
derstanding of their consumption and greater control over sector (B2G), while accelerating the digitalization of ser-
it is the basis of our daily commitment. vices for more efficient energy use.
We aim to develop innovative technologies that make the
Businesses: B2B (Business To Business)
Our ambition is to be able to become a partner to com- Among the most notable achievements in 2022 is the re-
panies and guide them towards the use of customized affirmation of our leadership in flexibility services, i.e. the
integrated solutions, starting from a simple consultancy service that allows companies to reduce their energy con-
to the implementation of articulated solutions such as sumption temporarily or provide their own on-site genera-
self-generation of electricity, installation of trigenera- tion in order to offer this flexibility to serve grid stabilization
tion plants, products and services for energy efficiency (balancing electricity supply and demand) and receive re-
and energy demand management solutions. We aim to muneration in return. In fact, we managed 8.5 GW of ca-
optimize costs and consumption, to create value where pacity worldwide on behalf of our customers.
it was not possible before, taking advantage of techno- We have also installed 87.8 MW of power solutions that
logical evolution and making businesses increasingly sus- have enabled our customers to self-generate renewable
tainable. energy.
DISTRIBUTED GENERATION
Enel X’s largest distributed solar generation project
in the world: Itaú Unibanco
“Two large companies with complementary strategies
have found the opportunity to work together, with an
Francisco Scroffa
integrated strategy, despite coming from different
Head of Enel X Brazil
sectors. Enel X is able to propose diversified solutions,
meeting all the needs of Banco Itaú and guaranteeing
savings, energy efficiency and sustainability.”
In August 2022, we signed an agreement with Itaú Uni- branches) with renewable energy. Enel X will facilitate
banco, one of the largest private banks in Latin Amer- Itaú’s energy transition in support of its commitment to
ica, for the installation of 46 photovoltaic plants with become a zero-emission entity by 2050. Itaú Unibanco
a total capacity of 54.7 MWp. It is one of Enel X’s largest is present in 8 countries besides Brazil, with 90,000 em-
distributed solar power generation contracts in the world ployees and 60 million customers. It operates mainly in
and will be used to power 1,557 branches in 14 locations Brazil, but its international presence allows it to provide
in Brazil (representing about 80% of the Brazilian bank’s high-quality services to local and Brazilian clients abroad.
In addition, the implementation of the Utility Bill Manage- avoid the emission of 10,000 tons per year of CO , thus
2
ment (UBM) platform will enable it to: embarking on the road to carbon neutrality by 2050.
•
digitalize the management of corporate payments;
•
organize information on service providers’ accounts;
•
monitor the energy and water consumption of the 1,557
business units;
•
monitor sustainability indicators.
Enel X’s distributed energy system will enable Itaú to gen-
erate its own energy with significant cost savings on its
bills and more efficient management of the company’s
accounts. In addition, the use of sustainable energy will
TELEMEDICINE
Smart Axistance e-Well
.
“Enel X’s mission is ‘to discover, nurture, fuse and
perfect cutting-edge technologies and services in
order to improve and make people’s lives easier’.
Alberto Piglia This is why Enel X intends to meet customers’ new
needs related to the world of Health: to have the
Head of e-Health Enel X
medical advice they need anywhere, any time and in
any condition. Platforms and services, in turn, must
comply with the principles of sustainability and
circular economy.”
Smart Axistance e-Well is the innovative applica- ranking and an internationally renowned medical-bio-
tion that accompanies users on a path to personal logical research center.
•
well-being and aims to help improve lifestyle and Wellness areas. It considers the main health risk factors,
monitor key health risk factors. The use of the e-Well appli- recognized by the American Heart Association, such as
cation is extremely simple despite encompassing years of physical activity performed, diet followed, sleep, smok-
medical-scientific research and cutting-edge technology: ing and mood.
•
simply download the app, fill in a questionnaire on your ini- Video consultations. In the Smart Axistance e-Well pro-
tial health status and perform the check-up, either at Poli- gram, the relationship between doctor and user takes
clinico Gemelli or completely digitally. Thus commences a place via video consultations: it is therefore digital, with-
year-long wellness journey. out geographical barriers..
•
The distinctive elements that characterize the innovative- Innovative technologies.
ness and sustainability of Smart Axistance e-Well can be Smart Axistance e-Well is
summarized in five areas: an application developed
•
Customization. The Smart Axistance e-Well wellness on the basis of the most
program is fully customized to suit people’s needs, char- advanced technologies
acteristics and lifestyles and includes a nutrition pro- and integrates its
gram and a physical activity program. functionalities with
•
Medical partnership. It is made possible by the combina- smartbands for monitoring
tion of Enel X’s technology and the medical expertise of vital parameters.
the doctors at Policlinico Gemelli, Italy’s leading hospital
according to Newsweek’s World’s Best Hospitals 2022
The public sector: B2G (Business To Government)
The offerings for the public sector aim to make cities In addition, we promote solutions for the electrification of
“smart” environments, accompanying them on a path of urban transport and public building efficiency that opti-
electrification and digitalization, through the integration of mize the energy performance of buildings while opening
solutions aimed at efficiency and the improvement of ser- up the possibility of active participation in the flexibility
vices in favor of the public’s well-being and the reduction services already described for B2B customers.
of polluting emissions. With a view to facilitating the control and management
We accompany small and large municipalities in their tran- of the solutions active in their region, we provide govern-
sition towards an innovative smart city model, providing ment authorities with a single digital access point, Enel X
them with a portfolio of solutions aimed at improving the YoUrban, which allows them to monitor the status of their
integration and interconnection of their services. infrastructures, visualize performance indicators and stay
For example, using state-of-the-art technology, we aim to connected and informed on the new technological possi-
transform street lighting into a smart, multifunctional and bilities offered by the market.
efficient infrastructure (sensors, cameras and electric car During 2022, we achieved major milestones in the efficien-
charging points) for the safety and convenience of the cy of public lighting by installing more than 3 million LED
public and at all times connected with a digital platform for lighting points and operated more than 5,321 electric
remote, real-time management and monitoring. buses worldwide.
ELECTRIC BUSES
The Enel X TransMilenio Project
“We are proud to be part of this project because,
by providing the charging infrastructure for
Lucio Rubio
the new bus fleet, we can contribute to the
General Manager of Enel
development of electric mobility, the energy
in Colombia
transition and the transformation of Bogotá into a
smart and sustainable city.”
public transport administration body of Bogotá’s Capital
District, and is intended for the public transport operator
Mueve Fontibón SAS.
It is the first large-scale electric mobility infrastructure in
Colombia, contributing to the decarbonization and the
technological and sustainable development of the capi-
In 2022, we completed the construction of the fifth tal Bogotá. Bogotá’s e-buses have enabled the municipal
electroterminal in Colombia, Fontibón – Escritorio, administration to reduce emissions by 600 tons of CO
2
one of the largest in South America. It will serve 172 per year. Six electroterminals capable of charging bus-
electric buses thanks to an electrical infrastructure with es in a few hours have already been opened throughout
an installed capacity of 13.6 MW, and boasts more than the city in Fontibón Escritorio, Fontibón Refugio, Fontibón
80 stations dual plug charging stations of 150 kW each Aeropuerto, Suba Las Mercedes and Usme, serving 878
provided by Enel X Way, another Group company whose electric buses with 412 smart chargers. In addition to the
mission is focused totally on electric mobility. partners already mentioned, there is the bus manufactur-
The project was developed within the framework of the er, BYD.
concession contract signed with TransMilenio SA, the
SMART AND EFFICIENT PUBLIC BUILDINGS
The Mateu Orfila Hospital
“Endesa X wants to be the energy partner
of cities to help them achieve their
Davide Ciciliato
decarbonization goals. We put all our
General Manager of Endesa X
knowledge of the energy world at their disposal
to realize cleaner cities that save as much
energy as possible. The Mateu Orfila Hospital is
an example of this.”
Endesa X built the first car park of a hospital covered in the hospital’s 15,000 m2 car park, will help to reduce the
by photovoltaic panels in the Balearic Islands (Spain). hospital’s carbon footprint significantly, supplying 20% of
The project enabled the Mateu Orfila Hospital to the electricity consumed by the hospital and saving around
have up to 976 kW peak power (kWp) in 100% renewable €160,000 per year, according to the Balearic Islands gov-
energy for its own consumption. The installation, located ernment’s Energy Transition Department.
Residential customers: B2C (Business To Consumer)
Our goal is to simplify and improve people’s lives, through consumption, such as through the Homix smart thermo-
integrated solutions that combine convenience and ef- stat, which optimally manages home heating, memorizing
ficiency and offer greater insight into consumption and the family’s habits and automating it according to differ-
consequently greater control over it, to enable residential ent needs, also managing lighting and home security in
customers to electrify their usage and participate in the an intelligent way, thus transforming it into a true smart
change taking place, with an awareness of how their indi- ecosystem that saves consumption and respects the en-
vidual choices contribute to the transition. vironment.
Our solutions therefore accompany customers along this A commitment that resulted in the sale of 73,000 Smart
path, guaranteeing greater independence in the supply of Home products and over 5,000 photovoltaic products
energy through easily accessible distributed energy prod- within a consumer customer portfolio that exceeded 63
ucts such as Enel X Sun Plug&Play rooftop and balcony million units globally.
photovoltaic panels. Alternatively, they can optimize their
RENEWABLES AND SOLIDARITY ENERGY
#UnPannelloInPiù: photovoltaics for installation on
apartment buildings can make a difference
A fund-raising campaign
promoted by Legambiente
together with Enel X
dedicated to the fight
Stefano Ciafani
against energy poverty and
National President
of Legambiente the social and economic
impact that solar home
panels can have.
“With the #UnPannelloInPiù campaign that sees
us alongside Enel X, we want to offer a concrete
response to high utility bills and social inequalities.
It is important to give the public a structural
welfare solution with tools for self-generation from
renewable energy that can bring lasting benefits,
both from an economic and social point of view
as well as from an environmental protection point
of view, while also combating energy poverty that
already affected more than 2.2 million households
in our country before the pandemic.”
How can we fight high energy prices and reduce the gambiente website, individuals, associations and business-
cost of utility bills? One of the simplest and most es were able to contribute to the purchase of photovoltaic
practical solutions comes in the form of photo- panels for installation on apartment buildings for families in
voltaic installation on apartment buildings: cheap, easy to economic and social difficulty. The crowdfunding initiative
install and activate, and able to cover the consumption of was accompanied by a touring campaign that made stops in
certain household appliances, such as the television, re- nine Italian cities from June 8 to 27, 2022. These were Naples,
frigerator or air conditioner, with bill savings of up to 20%, Brindisi, Palermo, Rome, Cagliari, Florence, Turin, Milan, and
while also generating environmental benefits. In fact, this Bologna. The event included a series of events aimed at rais-
technology makes it possible to generate clean energy, ing awareness of all the tools that exist today to reduce util-
contributing to combating the climate crisis and reduc- ity bills, including the role of solar photovoltaics in the fight
ing atmospheric pollution: it avoids the emission into the against energy poverty, as well as savings and efficiency, en-
atmosphere of 103 kg of CO per year, equivalent to the ergy communities, social bonuses and the sharing economy.
2
amount of CO absorbed by about 6 trees. In substance we are dealing with an inexpensive, easy-to-in-
2
For these reasons, in June 2022 Legambiente, together with stall and easy-to-activate solution that facilitates access to
Enel X, launched the fund-raising campaign “#UnPannel- solar technology by making it truly affordable for everyone.
loInPiù” with the dual objective of helping families in need Since its launch, the campaign has raised more than 80,000
and informing and raising awareness of the great potential euros, which will be used to donate apartment photovoltaic
of this type of panel. With a simple donation on the Le- systems to families in a state of energy poverty.
Energy communities
Renewable Energy Communities (or RECs), recently intro- photovoltaic system and allow all condominiums to take
duced into our legal system, are associations of compa- advantage of it, thus creating an excellent opportunity to
nies, businesses and members of the public who decide to take advantage of a shared space that until now was al-
join forces to equip themselves with one or more plants for most unusable for the benefit of all.
the virtual and shared generation and self-consumption of The program involves the construction of a 10 kWp photo-
electricity from renewable sources, achieving economic, voltaic system for each condominium staircase, reaching
environmental and social benefits. a total installed system of 60 kWp, or generating about
Enel X and Enel Green Power offer stakeholders the solu- 70,000 kWh/year in total. A self-consumption of 62,300
tions and services to bring the energy community to life kWh per year is estimated, which ensures the abatement
and make it grow in a virtuous way: from the construction of about 30 tons of CO emitted. An estimated reduction
2
of photovoltaic plants to the creation and technical-eco- of more than 60% in electricity use from the grid is expect-
nomic management of the community itself, from moni- ed, with clear benefits in terms of savings for apartment
toring the community’s state of service to stimulating the blocks. The project is not only limited to the generation and
electrification of consumption through efficient technol- self-consumption of apartment block energy, but aims to
ogies (heat pumps, induction hobs, etc.) and digital plat- offer a shared mobility and charging service. It would in-
forms. All with a view to making every energy community a crease the overall consumption of the apartment building
truly efficient and sustainable ecosystem. by 15-20% and the solution can also be implemented in
In Italy, thanks to current legislation (still awaiting Executive existing, balanced situations.
Decree), it has become possible to set up a condominium
Blufi: a reality projected
construction of three photovoltaic plants on the roofs
towards the future of municipal school buildings, with a total capacity of 64
kWp, to which others will be added as soon as possible, by
government-run or private entities.
Blue Green Energy. This is the name of the project joined This will result in the generation of around 90,000 kWh
by Blufi, a small village located 800 meters above sea per year of clean electricity, which will be shared with an
level, right in the heart of the Madonie Mountains, in original core of 16 members. This will bring the following
the province of Palermo (Italy). A small village of about benefits:
•
a thousand inhabitants that in the springtime sees environmental, reducing emissions by about 29 tons of
the surrounding fields transformed into a carpet of CO per year;
2
•
thousands of wild red tulips. This “Little Holland” has economic, thanks to the provision by the Gestore dei
decided to accept Enel X’s proposal to found the first Servizi Energetici (GSE – Energy Services Operator)
“inter-municipal” Renewable Energy Community, which of a bonus of €15,000 per year (for 20 years) to be
will involve five other municipalities in the Madonie: distributed among the members of the community;
•
Bompietro, Castellana, Geraci, Petralia Soprana and social, with a concrete contribution to savings on
Petralia Sottana. Specifically, the project includes the expenditure and reducing energy poverty.
Electric mobility to accelerate
the energy transition
3-3 DMA EU (former EU24)
We actively promote electric mobility as a key factor in re- spread the world of e-mobility. Our aim is to improve, sim-
ducing road transport emissions and contributing to the plify and make the world of e-mobility accessible, and to
achievement of the European Union’s energy efficiency do this we have developed smart charging solutions to suit
goals. every need.
Mobility is also a critical aspect of social inclusion and an Our journey in this direction started a long time ago, but
important determinant of human well-being, especially for in 2022, in order to cater to the rapidly growing market,
disadvantaged groups. Indeed, recognized as an essen- we decided to create a separate Business Line, Enel X
tial service in the European pillar of social rights, transport Way, fully dedicated to the expansion of infrastructure for
meets a fundamental need in enabling citizens to integrate charging electric vehicles, the development of advanced
into society and the labor market. charging technologies and flexible solutions to improve
We believe that an ecosystem of interconnected, intel- the customer experience and support the electrification
ligent products and services needs to be developed to of transport for consumers, businesses and cities.
New frontiers of electric mobility:
e-boating in Portofino
“Through this installation we give continuity to our
project of having a comprehensive infrastructure for
Lorenzo Rambaldi the marine sector, both on the sea and on the lake.
Head of Innovability Enel X Way Equipping ourselves with these new technologies
allows us to enhance the area and increasingly turn
our sights toward sustainable tourism.”
Our goal is to make electric mobility affordable and in- It is precisely in this context that Enel X Way’s initiative to
creasingly efficient, including in areas such as: support the Ligurian municipality’s “Portofino Carbon Free”
•
Urban Air Mobility (UAM): we have signed an agreement project was born, thanks to which a fast charging infra-
with Urban V, the company founded by Aeroporti di structure for electric boats located at Molo Umberto I is
Roma, to develop efficient and effective charging solu- now operational. This initiative represents a tangible sign
tions for electric vertical take-off aircraft, the air mobility of Enel X Way’s commitment to an increasingly sustainable
of the future; future for the area.
•
electric boating: we have developed charging infra-
structure for electric boats now present in Portofino and
Cernobbio (Italy) and on Lake Tahoe (California).
The electric boating market is booming, driven in part by
increasing customer interest in sustainable tourism that
reduces air and noise pollution, among other things.
The transition to a decarbonized economy passes
through sustainable transport for all
The full transition to e-mobility will only be possible rent, while for electric mobility on roads with a high volume
through the widespread deployment of safe, reliable and of traffic, we have launched the Enel X Way WaypumpTM,
user-friendly charging stations. This is why we have devel- which, thanks to a modular approach, can reach powers
oped a wide range of public and domestic charging infra- of up to 350 kW(5) in direct current, enough to charge an
structures, capable of charging electric vehicles anywhere electric vehicle to 80% in about 15 minutes.
at any time. We have also developed a business model that In the private sector, on the other hand, we have devel-
spans from the installation and management of charging oped the Enel X Way WayboxTM to meet domestic charging
points, the so-called Charging Point Operator (CPO), in needs. This can detect the consumption of other house-
which we already rank among the most pervasive com- hold appliances connected to the home meter, so that the
panies in the world, directly managing more than 22.6 maximum available capacity is never exceeded. In the world
thousand public charging points, the provision of direct of relevant business offerings, there is the Set&Charge
electric charging services to end customers (Mobility Ser- solution, which enables the creation of shared value for
vice Provider – MSP), through more than 260,000 charging our B2B customers, allowing them to turn their charging
points, accessible through the Enel X Way APPTM. infrastructure also into a source of revenue by making it
Our solutions in the public sector are the Enel X Way available to the public and setting their own service tariffs.
WaypoleTM, for charging up to 22 kW in alternating cur-
Guillermo Fumanal Achon
Head of Sustainability Enel X Way
Circular by design
by Enel X Way
“Circularity is a natural feature of our The Group’s circular strategy is also applied in Enel X Way. Our main AC
design, as we know that the use of charging products use recycled polycarbonate as the main material (100%
innovative and sustainable materials for Waybox and 75% for Waypole). In addition, we have optimized the use
increases the resilience of our product of raw materials on our WaypoleTM and have reduced the overall product
supply chains, mitigates impacts on the weight by about 32%.
geopolitical and social front (less need Another example of a circular solution we have implemented is the
for materials, less exposure to the risk recovery through remanufacturing of end-of-life components to be
of human rights violations), and finally reused as spare parts.
allows us to foreshadow ourselves as a
Net-Zero company.”
(5) For vehicles with 800V batteries (under the plan only Audi, Kia, Hyundai, Genesis, Porsche, Volvo, Polestar, Stellantis, General Motors, BYD and Lotus have so
far announced or launched electric cars with this feature).
Increasingly inclusive mobility
There is no real revolution in mobility if it is not truly ac- cles can now also be used to charge electric wheelchairs,
cessible to everyone. That is why we promote and devise thanks to our Enel X Way Wayability device, a charging
solutions that solve all mobility needs, so that even people cable that enables use of the same infrastructure dedicat-
with disabilities or reduced mobility conditions can benefit ed to electric cars. In this way, can take advantage of any
freely and independently from the opportunities offered charging point by booking through our app in the same
by modern e-mobility, starting with the charging infra- way as for electric cars.
structure. Our charging points dedicated to electric vehi-
Creative common
Universal Design
When it comes to designing electric car charging
points, we cannot overlook motorists and passengers
with reduced mobility. This is why our infrastructure
has been redesigned in cooperation with ANGLAT
(National Association of Transport Handicapped
Drivers) on the basis of an inclusive design, called
Universal Design, which provides parking stalls with
an additional signposted maneuvering area for
wheelchairs and bollards to protect the charging
stations from impacts resulting from any incorrect and
accidental maneuvers. In addition, the charging cable On the occasion of the International Day of Persons
is lighter, so that it can be handled more easily with Disabilities on December 3, 2022, we made the
by wheelchair users. intellectual property of Universal Design accessible for
free, allowing anyone to download our guidelines directly
from our website.
E-mobility
the previous version, quantification of the environmental
Emission Saving benefit in terms of CO (CO , CH and NO) savings.
2eq 2 4 2
Version 3.0 of the tool already made it possible to
determine the savings, generated by the distribution of
Over the past year, Enel X Way has adopted the public and private charging stations on the territory, of
calculation methodology of the “e-mobility Emission CO , equivalent trees per year, pollutants (NO, PM), noise
2 x x
Saving Tool 4.0” version, the tool developed to provide and the associated economic quantification on health
evidence of the organization’s commitment to sustainable and environment. Compared to 2021, there has been
mobility through the electrification of the vehicle fleet an increase in the energy delivered by charging stations
on the road. The algorithm was certified by RINA on resulting in a significant increase in CO savings, due
2
December 28, 2021 according to the principles set out in to the increased deployment of both electric vehicles
the UNI EN ISO 14064-2:2019 Greenhouse gases Part 2 and Enel X Way’s public and private charging points
standard. In version 4.0, the tool has added, compared to connected to the grid.
Promoting access to energy
and combating energy poverty
3-3 DMA EU (former EU23)
Access to energy is a challenge and a primary need as laboration with the Litro de Luz foundation, initiatives
stated by the United Nations SDG 7, which aims to en- that focus on the installation of technical tools that en-
sure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and mod- able the autonomy required to ensure the long-term
ern energy systems for all, due to the role they play as a sustainability of the project. The monitoring process in
driving force for fighting poverty and ensuring long-term each field is accompanied by a context analysis to mea-
economic and sustainable growth. sure the project’s impact on the sustainability of electri-
In its “Energy Progress Report” 2022, the International fication, as well as to establish a socio-energy analysis of
Energy Agency (IEA) reports that, at the current rate, the the communities.
world will fail to meet the targets of SDG 7 by 2030. In In the recent past, following the widespread increase
recent years, it reads, there has been a slowdown due to in the prices of raw materials on international markets,
the increasing complexity of reaching remote unassisted there has been an increase in consumers who find it dif-
populations and the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. ficult to manage the energy expense, especially families
The latter, in particular, continues to hold back economic with low incomes.
development, which is also weighed down by the energy The main responsibility for guaranteeing safe and eco-
crisis triggered by the Russia-Ukraine war. nomic access to basic energy services obviously lies with
According to the latest available data,(6) there are still 733 governments, but the electric sector is also called on to
million people without access to electricity, a figure that, provide a tangible contribution by promoting fair and
although down from 1.2 billion in 2010, should be read in sustainable social-economic development.
conjunction with the fact that the recent slowdown in the In all the countries where we operate we, together with
general trend has particularly affected the most vulnera- governments and local institutions, have always been at
ble countries and those that were already lagging behind. the forefront of the fight against energy poverty and the
At Enel, we are committed to ensuring that as many peo- campaign to facilitate access to energy for customers in
ple as possible have access to energy, both by using tra- vulnerable conditions, through specific initiatives to sup-
ditional means (connections to the electricity distribution port the deployment of energy efficiency and responsible
grid) and by developing off-grid solutions, and this en- consumption solutions, the modernization of infrastruc-
abled us to connect around 690,000 people in rural and ture and the growth of renewable energy sources, in line
suburban areas in 2022. with our sustainable business model and our commit-
In Brazil, 25,800 connections were made in the State of ment to an just transition.
Ceará through on-grid and off-grid solutions in remote
areas. The project reached 103,200 people from different In this respect, our approach has two lines of action:
isolated communities and traditional populations (indige-
nous or quilombos). Pro-active actions aimed at anticipating critical situa-
In Chile, during 2022, 1,900 new suburban connections tions through:
•
were built in the municipalities of Lampa, Pudahuel, Co- new offers that restructure the prices and reward re-
lina and Maipú. Enel Distribución, in alliance with Fun- duced consumption;
•
dación Techo and Litro de Luz, installed solar lights and a support for vulnerable customers in accessing the ben-
Wi-Fi point in the “El Esfuerzo 2” camp in the municipal- efits offered to them;
•
ity of Cerrillos, as well as offering workshops and training initiatives to disseminate practical tips for reducing con-
on renewable energies, entrepreneurship and digital lit- sumption, etc.
eracy, thus attempting to promote social and economic Reactive actions when critical situations arise with ad hoc
development in the camp. Enel Grids is constantly com- interventions:
•
mitted to promoting and implementing training activities suspension/deferral of payments;
•
related to energy efficiency, electrical risk prevention access to tax bonuses or credits for customers in eco-
for communities and climate change workshops, as well nomic difficulties or affected by natural disasters.
as carrying out initiatives to improve local employability In 2022, in developing countries alone, more than 182 en-
such as the development of sustainable lighting in col- ergy access projects were developed that reached around
(6) 2020.
1.9 million beneficiaries and roughly 134 related partner- Enel Shares Citizenship Goias (Brazil). In 2022, more than
ships were in place. 13,471 beneficiaries were involved in the project that stag-
es workshops and home visits to socially vulnerable fam-
Some examples of projects developed on an international ilies, disseminating information on how to reduce con-
level are provided below: sumption, in line with other social projects carried out by
the Company. The initiative promotes the inclusion of fam-
Training program on access to energy and social services ilies in public social assistance policies, such as the low-in-
(Spain). This initiative is based on training courses on issues come social tariff, which provides a discount of up to 65%
such as energy saving and efficiency measures, optimiza- on electricity bills.
tion of the electricity bill, the new Social Bonus and protec-
tion against having electricity cut off if the bills are over- We are committed to promoting access to energy in de-
due, and is directed towards NGOs and social services so veloping countries not only by supplying electricity, but
they are able to improve their consultancy and their efforts also clean, innovative technologies to the population in
for supporting families living in situations of vulnerability. In order to generate energy that has a reduced impact on
2022 more than 106,000 beneficiaries were involved in the the environment. Approximately 1,364 MW of energy from
project, which was developed together with the trainers at renewable sources was commissioned in Latin America in
Endesa Energía and with the participation of approximate- 2022, increasing the total renewable capacity to approxi-
ly 100 institutions (NGOs). The purpose of this initiative is mately 20,808 MW. In Africa, Enel Green Power is currently
to demonstrate the Group’s commitment to vulnerable the main private operator in the renewable sector in terms
groups and to contribute to the fight against energy pov- of installed capacity (more than 1,500 MW in operation and
erty, improving the relationships with stakeholders, from 598 MW under construction), with a presence in different
local institutions, to municipalities and Non-Governmental countries, including South Africa, Zambia and Morocco. In
Organizations. Involving the NGOs and social services in Asia, the Group is present in India through its subsidiary
the task of observing and fighting fuel poverty increases Enel Green Power India, one of the country’s main renew-
their knowledge in order to help vulnerable families and as able energy companies, which owns and manages 340
a result minimize the barriers to access to energy. MW of wind capacity, producing approximately 620 GWh a
year in Gujarat and Maharashtra.
PERU - Enlightening
and security, thus generating inclusive and sustainable
my community growth. The communities we target are located in areas
that are not part of the districts in our concession area,
so they cannot be served as customers. Since 2021, we
This is a program that provides clean and efficient energy have installed renewable hybrid systems at 6 locations in
to the most vulnerable rural communities close to our 3 regions of the country, with a total installed power of
sites which currently lack electricity, aiming to contribute 30,130 MW, benefiting more than 3,500 people, as well as
to their development and to the improvement of their educational centers, sports grounds, public lighting, and
living conditions by opening up a range of opportunities municipal premises, thus avoiding the emission of 52.34
in relation to education, business development, tons of CO per year.
2
connectivity, recreation inside and outside the home,
Our governance for promoting
access to energy
Our commitment to guaranteeing access to energy is also Top management is committed on a daily basis to real-
confirmed in our 2023-2025 Strategic Plan through the izing these strategic objectives by contributing towards
definition of specific objectives, including an increase in supporting the global challenge of guaranteeing access
renewable sources, the development of sustainable and to energy. To support Top Management, each Country is
circular products and services, engaging local communi- responsible for managing relationships with institutional
ties through a model for creating shared value (please see bodies, regulatory authorities on a national, regional and
the chapter, “Engaging communities”). The Strategic Plan, local level, and associations for promoting the develop-
the Sustainability Plan that describes in detail the goals and ment of solutions for access to energy according to dif-
commitments from an ESG point of view, including access ferent needs. The Innovability® Function, both on a holding
to energy and the corresponding financial and non-finan- level as well as a Business Line/Country level, also promotes
cial reporting are analyzed and monitored by the Board the dissemination of a shared value model. It supports in-
of Directors, by means of the Corporate Governance and novative solutions that can promote access to energy in
Sustainability Committee and the Control and Risk Com- remote areas with limited access to electricity.
mittee (see the Corporate Governance report, available at
www.enel.com).
Our commitment
to a just transition:
leaving no one
behind
Enel’s commitment to a Just Transition: to not leave anyone behind
2-24 2-25 2-26
Material topics Strategy SDG
p le
o
• Materiality e
P
analysis process
and results for
Double 2022
materiality
n
o
it
ib
m
a
ns
Zero
emissio
e
ur
Nat
Please refer to the following chapters of the Sustainability Report :
1. Zero emissions ambition
2. Empowering Enel people
3. Sustainable supply chain
4. Engaging communities
5. Clean electrifi cation
As early as the signing of the Paris Agreement on Climate services, like energy efficiency for buildings, measures to
Change, the connection between climate change and the fight energy poverty, and to clean and affordable energy;
•
impacts of the measures taken in response to it were ac- business active in high-emitting industries or sectors
knowledged by signatory countries in its preamble. who will need to be supported through actions eas-
By acknowledging that climate change is a common con- ing the switch to green technologies and leading to an
cern of humankind, signatories were requested, when tak- economy based on climate-resilient jobs and invest-
ing action to address it, to respect, promote and consider ments, also by spurring the setting up of new companies
their respective obligations on human rights, the right to and investing in research and innovation;
•
health, the rights of local communities, children, persons States and regions heavily dependent on fossil fuels and
with disabilities and people in vulnerable situations and the on high-emitting industries.
right to development, as well as gender equality, empow-
erment of women and intergenerational equity. Business plays a central role in economy decarbonization
A just transition is a key tool to ensure that the road to a since much of the CO emissions causing climate change
2
climate-neutral economy is equitable and does not leave comes from business-driven economic activity. It acts as
anyone behind. an enabler of innovation and solutions to prevent, mitigate
Just transition plans also show the way on how to best ad- and adapt to climate change and its adverse impacts on
dress social, economic and environmental challenges, with nature and people.
a specific focus on: The role of the energy sector in transitioning away from a
•
workers directly affected by the transition, who need to fossil-fuel based economy is crucial. Producers will need
be supported through requalification and/or by a facili- to scale up their contribution in terms of development
tated access to job opportunities in new sectors; of green technologies, grid infrastructure will need to
•
people and society at large, with a particular focus on be strengthened and digitalized to enable electrification
the most vulnerable, who need facilitated access to new and an efficient use of energy, and consumers will have to
change their behaviors, playing an active role in electrifi- pacts of the major changes green technologies will bring
cation of uses and contributing to optimization of energy and make sure that the transitions will benefit the broader
utilization. society, without leaving anyone behind.
Innovation and circular economy will be vital to limit the A well-managed transition may help addressing the human
use of newly extracted material thus reducing pressure on and economic impacts of a changing climate and also fos-
the supply side and mitigating human rights risks. ter growth, generate net new jobs and reduce inequality.
Finally, inclusive approaches will be key to manage the im-
Our strategy and our commitment
for a just transition
Ernesto Ciorra
Chief Innovability® Offi cer
We promote the growth of a constructive dialogue that can really help -
in an eff ective way - with tackling the challenges brought by the social
impacts of decarbonization strategies in line with the Paris Agreement,
and we have committ ed to a just transition that does not leave anyone
behind.
Respecting Human Rights Continuous innovation and embedding of circularity principles are
is a fundamental element also cornerstones for building a competitive, inclusive and sustainable
to empower business model. Indeed, a sustainable business conduct based on
sustainable progress. international reference standards is key to unlock multiple competitive
advantages, such as increasing talent att raction & retention,
strengthening corporate resilience, meeting customers & civil society
expectations, improving access to stock & capital markets, shaping
regulation & promoting system advocacy.
Every day we work for an inclusive transition by leveraging gressive phase-out of thermal generation sources. At the
engagement of our stakeholders (Enel people, suppliers same time, we are strengthening the role of distribution
and financial and commercial partners, communities in the networks, which in the future, due to the combination of
areas of influence of our operations, our customers, the greater use of electricity and greater diffusion of green
financial community) since we are aware that we belong to technologies, will have to be increasingly reliable and digi-
the territory and we are an essential element in the lives of talized in order to act as inclusive platforms for all our cus-
people, business and society at large. tomers with whom our challenge will be to facilitate their
switch to electricity for all uses and to new highly-digital
Our contribution to an affordable, secure and sustainable services.
energy system goes through accelerating decarboniza- All of this while leveraging innovation and circular econ-
tion of our energy production mix, in line with the Paris omy which act as accelerators of this path since they re-
Agreement targets, thanks to the development of renew- duce pressure on materials and technologies critical to the
able capacity, coupled with energy storage, and the pro- achievement of our goals as well as making it possible for
business models to evolve in an even more sustainable di- Transition Guidelines, so that no one is left behind, and
rection. we are aware of the social impact of our decarbonization
Further information is available at “Our strategy for sus- strategy, which is in line with the Paris Agreement, and
tainable progress”. that we manage by taking into account our overall com-
mitment in terms of respecting human rights throughout
We fully support the principles of a just transition, as out- the value chain, as also set out in our Human Rights Policy
lined in the International Labour Organization (ILO) Just which states that:
A fair and inclusive transition does not leave anyone behind
and takes into account the needs of all the stakeholders,
and, specifi cally, the most vulnerable ones.
To this end we:
•
proactively consider the needs and priorities of people
and wider society because this leads to process and
Human product innovation which is key for a competitive,
inclusive and sustainable business model, including the
Rights Policy adoption of circularity principles, protection of natural
capital and of biodiversity;
•
promote the involvement of the main external and
internal stakeholders to enhance awareness and develop
a constructive dialogue that can provide a valuable
contribution to the creation of solutions that mitigate
climate change.
(Enel’s commitment to respecting human rights)
At the heart of our strategy is our contribution to building of local communities, particularly so in the case of those
a fairer and more inclusive society across the whole value most exposed to the transition out from fossil fuels and
chain, since we believe that our integrated business model into green technologies;
•
coupled with a sustainable business conduct enables con- supporting customers in their electrification journey
tribution to the 2030 Agenda. while at the same time allowing for an affordable, secure
and green access to energy.
In 2019, we signed the United Nations Pledge Letter on
business commitment to a just transition and green, de- During the United Nations Framework Convention on Cli-
cent jobs and we have committed to: mate Change – COP27, we signed jointly with other 270
•
promoting multi-stakeholder engagement and social corporates and civil society leaders, a declaration reciting
dialogue with institutions, workers’ and their represen- “We stand ready to deliver a just transition and an equi-
tatives, respecting workers’ rights, encouraging social table and inclusive future for all. We want to work with
protection (including pensions and health care), and governments in building an enduring legacy based on our
providing wage guarantees, in line with the core and oc- collective efforts to secure 1,5 °C”.
cupational health and safety standards of the Interna-
tional Labor Organization (ILO); We have therefore defined specific plans and lines of work
•
working with existing and new suppliers that respect for a just transition, also at country level, consistently with
these standards, supporting them to increase their resil- the Group’s strategy to decarbonize its generation capac-
ience in a transitioning economy, while advocating and ity, with the objectives of the Paris Agreement, with the
acting for diversification of the supply chain of technol- principles of the ILO’s Just Transition Guidelines and the UN
ogies critical to net zero achievement; pledge, as well as with the public commitments outlined in
•
contributing to the social and economic development our human rights policy.
The plan hinges on three pillars: nities and helping customers to quit conventional tech-
•
involving internal and external stakeholders to increase nologies;
•
their awareness about a just transition and foster a con- transition into green technologies, facilitating access
structive dialogue that can contribute valuably; to new job opportunities for direct and indirect workers,
•
transition out of high carbon activities, supporting the and the development of inclusive and accessible solu-
vocational requalification of direct and indirect workers, tions for communities and customers.
developing socio-economic plans for affected commu-
Our plan and our lines of work for a just transition
Plan
Enel people Supply chain Communities Customers
Social dialog, social Support for increasing Contribution to socio- Support in
protection and wage resilience in the economic development, electrifi cation
guarantees, in line with transitioning economy with a focus on those journey and to
ILO standards. and the diversifi cation transitioning away from access aff ordable,
of ’net-zero’ critical fossil fuels generation. secure and green
technologies. energy.
Lines of action
Engagement Stakeholders' priorities analysis + Awareness raising campaigns + Advocacy + Other multi-
stakeholder initiatives
Social dialog and Thematic support ing Ongoing dialog to Initiatives on
listening events (for example, disseminate benefi ts decarbonization
decarbonization, of green transition in and electrifi cation
circularity, human rights) terms of climate change of uses
and socio-economics
development
Transition out Upskilling/reskilling, Joint work on circular Development of Analysis of barriers
redeployment, sharing and low carbon supply individual and multi- and intervention areas
of knowledge models + upskilling/ stakeholder activities to facilitate dropping
reskilling for workers to manage challenges out of conventional
whose jobs may and create shared value technologies
disappear opport unities
Transition in Upskilling/reskilling to Supplier development Access to credit, inclusive Empowerment and
green jobs and digital program (managerial business products, train- accessible and
and technical training ing aimed at facilitating inclusive transition
to foster business access to employment and
reconversion and gender-gap reduction
internationalization)
Stakeholders’ engagement
We promote a broad engagement of stakeholders, both a just transition. Such activities may be overarching, take
internal and external, in line with our Open Power ap- the form of advocacy or of participation to initiatives pro-
proach, aimed at enhancing their awareness and develop- moting a fair and inclusive transition, as well as being tai-
ing a constructive dialogue that can contribute valuably to lored to specific stakeholders categories.
Analysis of stakeholders’ priorities
Routinary and direct involvement of all our stakeholders economy, environment, and people, including impacts on
through a structured process of ‘materiality’ analysis is human rights.
one of the pillars of the definition of Enel’s strategy. This For more details, please refer to “Materiality analysis pro-
allows to identify material topics, i.e., topics that represent cess and results for 2022”.
the most significant impacts of the organization on the
Awareness raising campaigns
Awareness raising campaigns are a focal element to em- with the push on digital requires a different approach to
power our stakeholders in the transition to net zero. Our executing works or providing goods and services;
•
activities to this end are tailored to: communities in our area of influence, with whom we
•
people working in the organization, to support their have a structured approach to set up a broad, inclusive
commitment and sense of purpose as well as nurturing and ongoing dialogue and identify shared solutions;
•
a culture of inclusion; customers, whose active participation to the transition
•
suppliers, to support their path of change and growth needs to be fostered and supported.
since the transformation of the energy sector coupled
Advocacy
Promoting a just transition at all institutional levels is fun- ment on just energy transition, based on the principles
damental since there is a need to agree on what public defined in the ILO Just Transition Guidelines.
policies need to be in place to ensure achievement of de- Through such statement they have fully subscribed to
carbonization objectives. the objectives of the European Green Deal while ac-
Both our direct and indirect advocacy activities are con- knowledging the need for a more consistent effort by
ducted in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement the EU to define a European strategy for the electricity
and with our decarbonization roadmap. Specifically, we sector and the transition of its workforce as well as the
involve institutional stakeholders, trade associations, establishment of a coherent regulatory framework.
non-governmental organizations, and academia, in order Recommended actions include:
–
to promote our vision on climate and low-carbon policies, requiring countries to implement inclusive gover-
to contribute to the evolution of the regulatory framework nance and participatory mechanisms, social dialogue
towards ambitious climate goals and to promote an econ- and full transparency of transition planning;
–
omy in which carbon pricing drives long-term investments. setting a European framework on the anticipation
To this end, we interact directly with policy makers, con- and management of change;
–
tribute to the positioning of trade associations, and involve offering employees lifelong learning to maintain a
a broader set of stakeholders to build consensus and sup- qualified workforce since the ‘twin transition’ (decar-
port for specific policy proposals. bonization and digitalization) prompts development
For full details on our direct and indirect advocacy activi- of new business models thus spurring continuous
ties, please refer to “Advocacy about climate change pol- changes in terms of job profiles needed.
icies” Commitments include:
–
promoting social dialogue and collective bargaining,
•
Joint statement on just energy transition at all levels;
–
In November 2021, the European social partners - Eu- supporting the anticipation of skills and the need to pro-
relectric, IndustriALL and EPSU - signed a joint state- vide workers with the opportunity to update their skills
–
supporting and promoting reskilling and upskilling the Paris Agreement. It affirms that sustainable and just
through continuous professional development and solutions to the climate crisis must be founded on mean-
life-long learning. ingful and effective social dialogue and participation of all
stakeholders and notes that the global transition to low
•
European Works Council emissions provides opportunities and challenges for sus-
We maintain a high-profile social dialogue also through tainable economic development and poverty eradication.
the European Works Council, last renewed in July 2016, a It also emphasizes that a just and equitable transition en-
body introduced by European Directive 94/45/EC repre- compasses pathways that include energy, socioeconom-
senting the European employees of a company. Through ic, workforce and other dimensions.
it, workers are informed and consulted by management A work program, including a yearly ministerial meeting,
on the progress of the business. was also decided to discuss about the necessary steps
In March 2022, a plenary meeting was held and attended to achieve the Paris Agreement objectives.
by several representatives of Enel’s management, shar-
•
ing the Group’s positioning on the transition and the Electric mobility
various initiatives in place in the company to ensure a We actively promote e-mobility as a key factor in reduc-
fair process and a workforce increasingly prepared for ing road transport emissions and contributing to the Eu-
change. For further details, please refer to “Industrial re- ropean Union’s energy efficiency targets.
lations” in “Empowering Enel people”. Mobility is a critical aspect of social inclusion and an im-
portant contributor to human well-being, especially for
•
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate vulnerable groups.
Change – COP27 Transport, recognized as an essential service in the Eu-
The Sharm El Sheikh Implementation Plan includes a clear ropean pillar of social rights, meets a fundamental need
reference to just transition resolving to implement am- in enabling citizens to integrate into society and the la-
bitious, just, equitable and inclusive transitions to lower bor market.
emission and climate-resilient development in line with
Other multi-stakeholder initiatives
• •
Just Transition Think Lab Business Commission to Tackle Inequality (BCTI)
Among the main initiatives promoted by the Glob- Promoted by the World Business Council for Sustainable
al Compact, the Think Lab, developed in collaboration Development (WBCSD), it brings together business lead-
with the International Labor Organization (ILO) and the ers and key stakeholders with the aim of building a new
International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC) brings common narrative on the role of companies in the fight
together global leading companies on the topic, clarify- against inequalities, raising the issue of inequality in busi-
ing the strategic importance for the business to support ness agendas and strategies.
and engage in a fair transition that leaves no one behind, We are part of both the Commissioners’ group and of the
examining challenges, opportunities and encouraging following working groups: 1. Respect for human rights; 2.
the sharing of best practices and joint policy-advocacy Access to essential products and services; 3. Diversity, eq-
actions. uity and inclusion 4. Preparing people for the future of work.
In 2022 we contributed to the development of the fol- We also contributed to the launch of the introductory
lowing business briefs: report “Tackling inequality: The need and opportunity for
1. Introduction to Just Transition - outlining the behav- business action” and we are cooperating for the launch of
iors and priority actions for companies to undertake the initiative Flagship Report, expected in late 2023.
a right transition.
•
2. Just Transition for Climate Adaptation – exploring CSR Europe Leaders Hub for an Inclusive Green Deal.
how mitigation and adaptation actions implemented Selected group of CSR Europe members who have worked
by companies to address the risks and impacts of cli- on identifying the actions and tools needed by companies
mate change must consider a fair and equitable ap- to facilitate a fair transition in the context of the green and
proach from a social standpoint. digital transformations. We have been involved both in the
3. Financing a Just Transition – focused on the role of Steering Committee and in working groups on workforce,
finance in promoting a fair transition. The report also communities and consumers. A Roadmap for a Just Tran-
includes two Enel case studies: SDG-Linked Bonds sition was presented during the European SDG Summit,
and Futur-E. with the aim of providing companies with a strategic
direction to contribute substantially to a just transition.
•
The document contains three Enel case studies: Value 4 Global Alliance for Sustainable Energy
Disability, Soft Leadership and Re-generation. In the first An independent global alliance, open to all actors rec-
months of 2023, a second document was also launched, ognizing the urgency of tackling the climate emergency
the ‘European Business Toolbox for Just Transition’ which according to ‘just transition’ principles and the need to
provides additional tools for integrating just transition into promote and embed sustainability and social responsi-
business strategies. bility in the renewable energy industry.
The Alliance’s initial efforts will focus on four key themes:
•
Solar stewardship initiative net-zero & CO footprint; circular design & economy;
2
It is an initiative launched by the member-led associa- human rights; and water footprint. In addition to repre-
tion Solar Power Europe with the aim to ensure that solar sentatives of industry, industry associations, academia,
products imported to our continent are not associated the Global Alliance for Sustainable Energy(1) involves civil
to human rights violations, as well as being aimed at en- society and especially young people to accelerate the
hancing the level of transparency, including a broader energy transition. An energy transition that is just and
approach to sustainability, and therefore addressing the leaves no one behind.
requirements that might be included in the upcoming
European Union legislation.
Tailored engagement activities
Enel people | Playing a leading role in the Main objectives of the program are:
–
transition keep track of the sentiment of our people about the
company;
–
Listening and actively engaging the people working in understand their level of knowledge and engagement
Enel are core elements to foster their commitment and with respect to the key strategic pillars, as well as to
action on the strategy the Group is pursuing. Hereafter, specific projects developed to:
the most relevant activities: • spread Enel’s clean electrification pathway;
• spread key notions around health, safety and
•
Enel Digital Days well-being, diversity and inclusion, job opportuni-
The format runs on a proprietary digital platform that ties, learning and development, listening and feed-
includes live streaming and on-demand content, de- back, among others;
signed according to accessibility and inclusivity stan- • stimulate them to become ‘enablers’, like contribut-
dards (voice over and sub-titles in the languages spo- ing to the SDGs, customer centricity, digitalization
ken in the organization(2)). and data-driven culture, cybersecurity and data
2022 edition: the narration hinged on the decade of protection, technological innovation and circular
electrification and the central role played by custom- economy;
–
ers to achieve the transition, with focus areas on de- identify the communication channels that facilitate
carbonization and renewables, digitalization and da- understanding of a topic;
–
ta-driven, role of the distribution grids, energy commu- develop internal communication action/remediation
nities. Contents are still available on-demand and the plans on the topics/programs least understood;
–
campaign achieved 36,000 unique users and 300,000 track results and effectiveness of actions implement-
content views. ed over time.
•
Strategic alignment tracking Overall population breaks down in 4 clusters, each rep-
In 2021, we also launched a data-driven program to mea- resentative of the composition of the full workforce by
sure, on a rolling basis, how much the people working in gender, age, role, and seniority, the survey is carried out 4
our organization feel empowered to navigate through times a year (4 waves), and results are on an aggregate ba-
the transition, across strategic levers such as electrifica- sis as well as per country. After each wave, results are an-
tion of uses, acceleration of the decarbonization path, alyzed jointly with countries/business lines/staff functions
customer centricity and the new way of working. so as to define an immediate action plan, if necessary.
(1) Industrial members: 3M, Acciona, Adani renewables., EDP, Eletrobras, Enel Green Power, Goldwind, Iberdrola, JA Solar, Nordex, NTPC, Prysmian, Risen Energy,
Trina Solar. Advisory members: European Space Agency, Global Solar Council, Global Wind Energy Council, Politecnico di Milano, Politecnico di Torino, Stu-
dent Energy and Youth Climate Leaders. Supporting members: IRENA coalition for action
(2) 6 for the 2022 campaign and 5 for the 2022-2023 campaign as a result of the Group’s exit from Russia.
In 2022, redemption was equal to 33.4%, higher than sim- Customers | Communication campaigns
ilar preceding surveys. Among the internal communication and international initiatives
channels, the company intranet turns out to be the most ef-
•
fective means of communication. Social media and website
In terms of reputation, perception is positive and generally We develop initiatives to raise public awareness on de-
higher than the average of other companies belonging to carbonization and electrification of uses.
heterogeneous sectors (for example, telecommunications, Worth mentioning:
–
financial) and with a perimeter comparable to the one of the #WattAChange, a campaign to highlight the impor-
Group (multinational companies). tance of green technologies in the European energy
Positive aspects concern the care given to the people work- context,
–
ing in the organization, who are rewarded equitably, the re- the Enel website section dedicated to the strategic
sponsible and transparent conduct in communication and role of electricity in driving decarbonization and also
relations with the stakeholders, protection of environment enhanced through the social channels of the Enel
and commitment to generate both environmental and social Group (https://www.enel.com/company/our-commit-
positive impacts. Among the aspects to work on further, the ment/electricity-role-europe-decarbonization).
ability to offer increasingly accessible products and services.
•
In addition, people working with us identify with the “Open Power2People
Power for a Brighter Future” purpose, feel involved in the Power2People is a Eurelectric initiative aimed at foster-
strategy, and actively promote it, both internally and exter- ing customers’ engagement in actively taking part in the
nally, and would recommend Enel as a workplace. energy transition and how different actors in the new
energy ecosystem can support them on this journey. We
take part into this initiative as chair of the customers and
Suppliers | Thematic events new services working group.
Examples of facts-based actions to empower customers
Suppliers are our partners in the sustainable growth path. to utilize digital green technologies are:
–
We promote a cooperative joint effort to maximize the eco- the publicly available study on the critical role heat-
nomic, productive, social and environmental advantages of pumps play. On average, European households save
the transition. We are committed to creating sustainable 39% on their bills when switching from fossil fuel
processes, both innovative and circular, that allow to better powered heating systems to electric heat pumps. In
quantify, and then mitigate, total impacts they generate. addition, they provide an up to 400% efficiency gain
We have in place thematic events concerning decarbon- over comparable gas boilers when installed in prop-
ization, adopting circular business models, respecting erly insulated homes and the flexibility of the tech-
human rights with the aim of sharing best practices and nology allows for their use in a variety of household
multi-stakeholder approaches in line with the international settings, including in multifamily homes, or as part of
reference standards for a sustainable conduct. district heating and cooling systems;
–
the publicly available study on smart thermostats,
a relatively easy to use and implement technology
Communities | Ongoing dialogue which helps households and enterprises of all sizes
improve their energy efficiency and optimize con-
We collaborate with communities with the intent of identi- sumption without reducing user comfort and provid-
fying how we can work together for their socio-economic ing flexibility to the power system by adjusting con-
development, including fostering access to energy, fight- sumption during peak periods.
ing energy poverty, supporting quality education. They can also provide consumers with an average of
Activities include spreading the notion that a transition to 10-15% of energy savings when connected to climate
green technologies to fight climate change is not just ben- control devices like electric heat pumps or air condi-
eficial to the environment and the preservation of the re- tioning units.
lated human rights but that it brings socio-economic de-
•
velopment. Indeed, the creation of new jobs is estimated 15 Pledges to customers
to outweigh the loss of fossil-fuel related ones,(3) and may 15 Pledges to customers was launched in March 2020
represent a further tool to contribute to improving gender by Eurelectric and co-signed by more than 90 Euro-
balance in the working environment as well as contributing pean electricity retailers, supported by their National
to an improved quality of life. Associations, who have committed to accompany cit-
(3) IEA, 2022 World Energy Outlook.
izens in the energy transition with the broad aim to en- ing consumers from engaging in the energy transition
sure a future European electricity system that is sus- by identifying common trends and local differences
tainable, reliable and inclusive. By signing the pledge across nine countries (Ireland, Norway, Netherlands, It-
electricity suppliers commit to developing a range of aly, Spain, Portugal, Germany, Czech Republic and Po-
solutions to make sure that everyone can benefit from land) involved in the joint collaboration effort with Eu-
carbon neutral electric solutions and to facilitate the relectric and Accenture through their national associ-
adoption of electro-mobility, energy efficiency services ations representing the electricity industry. For further
and renewable generation. The scope of the initiative details, please refer to “Customers | Empowering the
also included understanding the key barriers prevent- transition”, in the “Transition in” section of this chapter.
Transition out
Enel has defined a clear decarbonization roadmap of its cilities are located. Specifically:
•
energy mix, planning to complete the closure of all coal- in Italy, with energy requalification projects in line with
fired power plants by 2027 and to exit both gas-fired the transition objectives, the National Integrated En-
electricity generation and gas sales to final customers ergy and Climate Plan (Piano Nazionale Integrato En-
by 2040. ergia e Clima - PNIEC) and the European Fit for 55 and
Such roadmap consists of four main actions: Repower EU objectives;
• •
promote electrification solutions powered by renew- in the Iberian Peninsula with the progressive transition
able sources; of coal-fired plants, like Teruel in Andorra, Compos-
•
complete fossil fuels phase-out; tilla in León (closed in June 2020), Carboneras in Al-
•
accelerate the development of renewable sources; mería Litoral (closed in December 2021) and As Pontes
•
digitalize and expand distribution networks. in Galicia; for the latter we have developed a plan of
For further details, please refer to “Our strategy for sus- entailing approximately 2.7 billion euros of investment
tainable progress”. and the creation of more than 1,300 jobs (details of
the plan are available at the following link https:///www.
The framework developed to achieve these objectives endesa.com/en/press/press-room/news/energy-tran-
takes into account the needs of the people who work sition/development-plan-as-pontes-thermal-pow-
with us, the unions, our communities, our suppliers and er-plant-closure);
•
our customers and applies to all thermoelectric genera- in South America, where we have disconnected two
tion plants impacted by the phaseout of fossil fuels, ar- coal plants, Tarapacá that was closed on 31 December
ticulating in the adoption of inclusive practices through 2019 and Bocamina (group I in 2021 and group II in
initiatives in which individual conditions, economic and 2022). We have thus become the first electricity com-
social development and the general welfare of broader pany in Chile to no longer use coal for its generation
society are closely connected. activities, 18 years ahead of the original goal of 2040
set by the Chilean National Decarbonisation Plan of
In 2015, we have launched the ‘Futur-e’ initiative in Italy 2019.
that included thermal power plants no longer competi-
tive on the market for a total capacity of 13 GW. The aim Consistently with our commitment to a fair and inclusive
was to give new life to the sites that hosted the plants. transition, the plan for exiting thermal generation entails :
•
Subsequently, we expanded the geographic footprint Enel people | maintaining and developing skills and
extending to Iberia and South America and leading to a know-how transfer
–
portfolio of about 5 times higher than the initial one (c. agreed redeployment based on individual charac-
80 sites). teristics either in the same Business Line, on the re-
newable side, or in other Business Lines, in order to
Besides our direct involvement for other uses but always enhance human capital and know-how. Agreed rede-
connected to the world of energy, we have expanded ployment (which also involves workers’ representative
repurposing opportunities by integrating new business bodies) is accompanied by reskilling and upskilling
projects with complementary sustainable investments plans for strengthening existing skills or developing
that meet the needs of the communities where the fa- new skills needed in the new role. Redeployment does
not affect negatively role and contract type. opment of multi-stakeholder projects to foster the
In the case of Chile, for example, out of the 50 people creation of shared value throughout the project,
working in the Tarapacá power plant 26 have been re- from preliminary talks to the choice of the redevel-
deployed in other thermal generation units, 9 people opment project to pursue. The plan developed for
in renewable generation, 3 in other areas of the com- the closure of the Bocamina plant contains at least
pany, while 12 opted for a voluntary exit accompanied two examples of this approach: for the site hosting
by an economic, training and insurance package. For the second unit, closed in September 2022, we drew
further details, please refer to the Bocamina dedicat- up a project to transform the discharge of ash pro-
ed box; duced by combustion, amounting to 10 hectares, in a
–
voluntary access to early retirement for those who native forest. In addition, we signed a ‘just transition’
are eligible. In the 2020-2022, period we have provi- agreement with the municipality of Coronel that will
sioned more than 1.5 billion euros dedicated to man- allow the local government to invest in strengthen-
aging Enel people affected by the energy transition ing health services and education, in addition to the
strategy. building of a new school and a new park (for further
•
Site repurposing/regeneration(4) details, please refer to the dedicated box);
– –
replacement of thermal production plants with re- third-party projects not in energy field that meet
newable or hybrid plants, i.e. a combination of green the needs of the communities in which the facilities
technologies like, for example, renewables, storage, are located. An example is the transformation of the
hydrogen; site where the Porto Tolle plant operated to achieve
–
land reclamation and maximization of the reuse of environmental requalification and sustainable tour-
abandoned structures, such as roads, infrastructure, ism thanks to a project of Human Company, a Flor-
high-voltage connections, buildings, etc. in line with ence-based group which is also Italy’s leading open
our circular economy principles; air tourism specialist.
–
engagement of impacted communities and devel-
(4) For further details, please refer to “Clean electrification” dashboard and to the “Sustainable Repurposing Model” box of “Conservation of natural capital“
chapter.
TRANSITION OUT: Montalto di Castro (Italy)
The first museum of the energy transition
is being built in Montalto di Castro
Culture, innovation and the energy transition: three Furthermore, existing infrastructure will be expanded and
fundamental aspects of Italy come together in the integrated with new renewable capacity and storage, in
new energy exhibition center that will be built in line with our sustainability objectives, and this will contrib-
our “Alessandro Volta” power plant in Montalto di Castro, in ute positively in terms of enhancement of the territory and
the province of Viterbo. livelihood of the local community. Third party entrepre-
The site once hosting the plant will become an “integrated neurial initiatives are also planned in line with our circu-
and multifunctional energy hub” thanks to the involvement larity strategy. Specifically, a portion of the land has been
of the community in the area of influence and in cooper- rented out to a local company for the building of a solar
ation with the ACPV ARCHITECTS Antonio Citterio Patricia tracker factory, producing the devices that allow photo-
Viel studio. voltaic panels to follow sunlight during the day in order to
As a matter of fact, the main objective of the project is to maximize electricity production. The building of the fac-
repurpose the site by developing the TECCC, the Centre tory will have positive outcomes for local employment and
for Culture and Knowledge of the Energy Transition, an communities including, but not limited to, offering job op-
Energy Transition museum that will also host facilities ded- portunities to all site workers. In addition, spaces are dedi-
icated to training, awareness-raising and energy thematic cated to the study of further sustainable solutions, such as
events. an innovative hydroponic greenhouse project .
TRANSITION OUT: As Pontes (Spain)
The socio-economic development plan concerning
As Pontes phase-out testifies our commitment to a just transition
and the creation of value in the area of influence of the plant
The As Pontes plant is located in the north of the A duction of natural fibre from recycled paper and card-
Coruña province, in the municipality of As Pontes board, that will generate 150 direct and 400 indirect jobs;
•
de García Rodríguez. It has been in operation since the supply of electricity to Alcoa at a competitive price
1976 and it is the largest thermal plant in Spain. that would enable the latter to resume aluminum pro-
We have submitted to the Ministry of Ecological Transition duction after the downturn caused by the increase in
as well as to the Regional Government of Galicia and the energy prices;
•
Council of As Pontes, a plan mainly including: a new logistics role for the outer port of Ferrol that will
•
the dismantling of the coal plant (approximately 4 years) compensate the traffic decline connected to the shut-
that will include training for the over 130 employed to down of the plant by becoming a multi-client bulk ter-
such purpose, giving priority to local manpower and minal (transport and storage of bulk cargoes: grain, min-
people who already worked in the plant; erals, etc.);
• •
the development of a 1.3 GW wind farm that will generate green hydrogen generation plants, with the building of
up to 2,300 jobs during construction and additional 274 an electrolyser for up to 100 MW powered by the wind
direct jobs during the 25 years of estimated useful life; farm that will be built;
• •
the repurposing of the territory for new industrial uses the development of a strategic wind maintenance logis-
including a smart tyre factory, that will create 750 direct tics centre to support 120 Endesa’s wind farms in Spain,
jobs and will act as an economic vector for the terminal that will entail the generation of 57 direct jobs;
•
of the nearby port of Ferrol; training for local manpower, workers in auxiliary compa-
•
a biological plant for the recovery, development and pro- nies and to support women employment.
TRANSITION OUT: Teruel (Spain)
After 40 years of operations, Teruel’s coal plant cooling towers
have been demolished. The site will host photovoltaics and wind
installations. An additional example of sustainable decarbonization
and decommissioning
Development of a hybrid energy hub, with photovol- struction, with 300 direct permanent jobs at regime;
•
taic and wind plants, storage and a green hydrogen training to upskill people in the area of influence in or-
installation: these are some of the projects includ- der for them to be able to work in the renewable energy
ed in the energy transition tender. A substantial change sector and to open access to work to local unemployed
that will bring new jobs and will support requalification for people.
the very people working in the plant thanks to job rotation.
Hereby a few data: In addition to the plan connected to the energy transi-
•
energy transition tender: right to develop 953 MW, with tion tender, Teruel will also host a photovoltaic plant called
the option to get to up to 1,200 MW; SEDEIS V, for an installed capacity of circa 50 MW and an
•
building of 5 solar plants and 5 wind ones in a hybrid investment of approximately 40 million euros. The proj-
setup jointly with a storage system that will enable full ect will generate more than 280 jobs during construction
exploitation of the renewable production; (started in July 2022) and 8 permanent jobs for the opera-
•
more than 1,200 millions of euro to be invested; tion and maintenance of the plant that will have an average
•
industrial development coupled with a social plan entail- life of 30 years.
ing the generation of more that 3,500 jobs during con-
TRANSITION OUT: Bocamina (Chile)
Ours is a daily commitment to an inclusive transition unfolding
through engagement with our stakeholders since we are aware
that we belong to the territory and we are an essential element in
the lives of people, businesses, and society at large
On September 30, 2022, the town of Coronel wit- Enel in Chile. He has also gone from working 12-hour shift
nessed a historic event. With the final disconnec- to a hybrid working framework. Now he works eight days
tion of Bocamina II, Enel became the first com- a month at Enel Chile headquarters in Santiago or on-site
pany in Chile to close all of its coal-powered plants. The the power plants in Antofagasta and Atacama. The rest of
milestone occurred in an area historically associated with the month, he works remotely from his home so he can
the coal industry, but that today aspires to transition to a stay close to his family .
more sustainable and inclusive development. The people involved by the shut-down of the two units of
Bocamina contributed to Chile’s national development and the plant are 90: more than 60% has been redeployed in
energy security and its shut-down has occurred at the end other areas of the company, like engineering and construc-
of a just transition plan launched two years before and tion, renewables, health, safety, environment and quality
aimed at maximizing value for Enel’s people, suppliers and whereas about 30% has enjoyed early retirement or volun-
local communities. tary redundancy, and about 7% has continued working for
The story of Michael Navarro is a good example. The shut- the Operations & Maintenance unit managing the plant.
down of the plant has turned into an opportunity since it In addition, the main contractors providing services to the
has offered him new options in the renewables field and, Bocamina plant have been included in the eligibility pro-
specifically, in the maintenance of the solar power plants of grams for commercial retraining and professional skills.
2022 2023-2025
45% 70%
of people who left coal- of people leaving coal-fi red
fi red plants in 2022 have been plants will be redeployed, part icipating in
redeployed and have att ended upskilling and reskilling programs
upskilling and reskilling programs 30%
The remaining will be included in
(~90 hours per capita)
early retirement plans
Redeployed coal plants people: Overall reskilling and upskilling
~80% dedicated to total Enel people:
within the Enel Green Power 40%
up to
and Thermal Generation perimeter
~20%
in other Enel business Strengthening of the “internal
areas training” approach
Transition in
The ‘green transition’ is the combination between tech- Similarly to ‘transition out’, however, the path to a ‘green’
nological innovation and actions aimed at a sustainable and digital future must also be led in an inclusive way to en-
economic growth that fosters the transition from a sys- able all stakeholders to seize its opportunities and manage
tem based on polluting energy sources to a virtuous model the risks involved. Like actions to promote requalification,
centered on green sources and social development at the vocational training, and self-learning, in the case of direct
same time. and indirect workers, support for business diversification
This transition couples with a digital one, which initially and increased resilience for supply chain companies, as
started for operating efficiency reasons and then trans- well as generation of value for communities, through ac-
formed into a driving force for innovating traditional busi- cess to local job opportunities, and facilitating access to
ness models. products and services for customers.
Enel people | Lifelong learning
The rapid and continuous evolution of the business and Empowerment becomes therefore crucial to evolve cul-
the support to a fair transition strategy towards low carbon turally, because it allows to fully involve people, motivat-
technologies and services entail the need for new techni- ing them to express their potential, while at the same time
cal and professional profiles and the awareness that some providing them with opportunities for personal and profes-
jobs will disappear. This context prompts for an ongoing sional development, and contributing to create conditions
training activity accompanying people throughout their of well-being, motivation, responsibility and participation
personal and professional life in a sort of “circular path”, that will enable the achievement of strategic objectives.
starting from school up to when the working activity ends Among the initiatives implemented:
•
and returning consolidated knowledge to new generations retraining and professional updating, up/reskilling,
and to the ecosystem will be key. self-learning and knowledge transfer. Our business lines
Schools & Academies have organized existing skills im- what is the language used, and the opportunities offered
provement programs to allow participants to access by STEM courses. For more details please refer to the
more advanced career paths (upskilling) and to learn chapter “Empowering Enel people”.
new skills (reskilling) to hold different positions and roles,
also through the enhancement of soft and transversal
skills. Such programs have been realized also in collabo-
Enel people
ration with university and academic partners;
•
support for the dissemination of the digital culture and
the utilization of digital media;
•
promotion of women’s presence in STEM (Science, Tech- 96%
of population involved
nology, Engineering, Mathematics) classes and jobs. We
in training
collaborate with schools, universities, and institutions to
overcome gender stereotypes and spread the impor-
tance of an increasingly integrated technical-scientific
> 3.1
culture and humanistic dimension. These STEM aware- million hours of training
(>47 average hours per capita),
ness and orientation initiatives involved nearly 10,000
of which over 42% dedicated to upskilling
high school students in 2022 (over 30,000 students in
and reskilling
the last 6 years);
•
career counseling: conversations on specific topics
to increase awareness of third- and fourth-year high- 430
thousand hours of training
school students when choosing what to study and which
dedicated to digital skills (14% of the
job to look for, together with shadowing meetings, i.e., overall training hours)
working days spent alongside a professional to begin
to understand how the working environment works and
Suppliers | Supporting change
Suppliers are an essential partner in the journey to decar- life cycle of the supplies (for core categories(5) we re-
bonization. quire the Environmental Product Declaration(6) – EPD)
•
In this sense, the actions we have in place aim, on the we require information about the country of origin and
one hand, at supporting their increased resilience and, on the quantities of each material composing the product,
the other, to minimize pressure on critical materials and including recycled and recyclable material. This allows
components through continued technology innovation us to reward suppliers based on their recycling capa-
and recycling. bilities thus stimulating a circular culture and meeting
That is why we work jointly with them to develop new per- the increasing demand for supply chain transparency
formance metrics and to promote co-innovation projects and traceability aimed at minimizing potential ESG im-
to support decarbonization and circular economy ap- pacts of some products production processes in terms
proaches, that will all have positive impacts on their pro- of human rights violations, bribery, water use, air pollu-
duction processes and on the purchasing methods. tion, CO emissions and loss of biodiversity.
2
Among such initiatives: We have also worked on several initiatives to walk the
•
we set increasingly challenging emission targets in ten- talk in terms of supporting business reconversion and
der processes that also factor in the contribution of in- diversification:
•
novation. These targets are shared with our suppliers Supplier Development Program, initially launched in It-
and are in line with a 1.5° roadmap; aly (where it is currently open to over 6,000 suppliers)
•
we promote a circular supply approach through the and being extended to other countries of presence,
adoption of various initiatives and mechanisms that al- which places a specific focus on SMEs operating in
low us to quantify, certify and communicate objectively strategic sectors that will benefit from our direct sup-
the environmental impacts generated throughout the port for an easier access to services such as liquidi-
(5) Core categories are the ones strategic for the business, and include wind turbines, smart meters, photovoltaics, transformers, street lighting, smart home
solutions, storage systems.
(6) Document describing the environmental impacts related to the production of a specific quantity of product or service: for example energy consumption
and raw materials, waste production, emissions into the atmosphere and discharges into water bodies.
•
ty sources, management and technical training pro- “Energie per Crescere” (Energy for Growth), a program
grams to encourage their business requalification to launched at the end of 2021 with the aim of train-
serve the energy transition, advice on sustainability, ing about 8,200 new technicians, including 5,500 by
circular economy, strategy, M&A and internationaliza- 2023, creating highly requested professional profiles
tion, access to catalogues of means of transport and in the electricity sector (cable pullers, cable splicers,
work machines, certificates; substations assemblers, live-line workers) to be hired
•
“Sportello imprese” (business counter), which consists by Enel grids partner companies; the remaining 2,700
in meeting periodically with companies belonging to technicians will be trained and hired by 2025 and the
the traditional energy production sector to support training will focus on renewable profiles for partner
their growth and requalification in areas such as re- companies (electrical specialists, junior site managers,
newables or new services related to energy efficiency; civil-mechanical specialists). During 2022, some 2,100
•
courses focusing on the reskilling/ upskilling of work- new technicians were trained and recruited from grids
ers connected to jobs that risk disappearing, on fos- suppliers;
•
tering entrepreneurship and strengthening the Italian “Energie per la Scuola”, a program for final year stu-
productive and economic fabric, such as: dents attending technical and vocational schools
–
Digital Management Program: an initiative aimed at with the aim of training them for the ‘most wanted’
stimulating and encouraging businesses digital de- roles in the electricity sector so that, after graduation,
velopment. Our Digital Innovation Hub of Lazio has they can be hired by Enel’s suppliers. The first edition
collaborated to developing a project of consolida- of the program (school year 2020/2021) involved 11
tion and growth of managerial skills of leading com- schools, 8 suppliers of e-distribuzione and a total of
panies in the region. The training, that took place in some 100 students who were all hired by Enel’s sup-
2022, was held after an initial stage of assessment pliers at the end of the training. The second edition,
instrumental to raise awareness about digital skills aimed at 2022/2023 school year students, is currently
and improving them. The project has then given rise underway and it involves over 60 schools and some
to the Digital Management Program which, in 2022, 500 students.
involved 20 companies of the local territory for a to-
tal of 24 hours of training provided by Luiss Business For full details, please refer to “Sustainable supply chain”.
School;
–
courses for photovoltaic panel installers: during Moreover, also in 2022 we have promoted employment
2022, we launched the initiative also in Brindisi. It stability in Italy thanks to the application of the so-called
aims at requalifying local suppliers training them so “social clause” in our purchasing procedures. Such
that they can work in solar photovoltaic plants build- clause mandates a supplier taking over another in the
ing sites. This activity builds on what was done in provision of the same service to ensure continuation of
2021 for Civitavecchia and Montalto di Castro sup- the employment of the persons employed by the former
pliers involved in the Alto Lazio energy transition and supplier. This allowed 3,700 people to keep their job.
that have decided to requalify their business in order
to be able to work in the renewables field;
Suppliers
Our efforts also go in the direction of supporting a greater
diversification of the supply chain of key technologies for
the transition, like for solar PV.
This is the case of 3SUN, our PV modules producing fac-
8,200
tory in Catania, Sicily which is a European leader in the people involved in training
manufacturing of innovative bifacial cells and panels. aimed at new technical profi les to be
hired in supply chain companies
The planned capacity expansion (from the current 200
MW to roughly 3,000 MW per year by 2024) will involve an
investment of around 600 million euros and the creation
5,500
people for grids, of which
of direct and indirect jobs.
2,100 have been already trained and
For further details, please refer to “Clean electrification”.
employed (full achievement by 2023)
2,700
people for renewables (full
achievement by 2025)
Communities | Creating shared value
•
Our commitment to support communities goes through Ruta Pehuenche (Maule Region, Chile) - program for the
initiatives that promote inclusion (with particular attention growth of local small entrepreneurs
to people in conditions of physical, social and economic Engagement with the local community of the area of in-
vulnerability) both in terms of access to local working op- fluence where the construction of the Los Cóndores hy-
portunities and to facilitating access to products and ser- droelectric plant is underway has generated educational
vices. and working opportunities, with the birth of a micro-en-
These initiatives, as specified in the chapter “Engaging trepreneurial fabric led by women.
communities”, are the result of solid and lasting relation- The project was born with the twofold objective of pro-
ships that include a broad, inclusive and continuous dia- moting the economic growth of the whole community,
logue based on clearly defined phases of “Stakeholder en- through training courses, and improving living condi-
gagement” in line with international reference standards. tions, thanks to the use of environmentally friendly tech-
We have, for example, put in place many projects focus- nologies for water supply, for the cultivation of food, for
ing on digitalization to support connectivity in rural areas, the construction of housing, for access to energy and
computer literacy, as well as to encourage the participation for sanitary facilities. In the four years since the start,
of women in STEM subjects. These include the following: more than 80 participants attended the courses, includ-
•
Lethbridge College (Alberta, Canada) - partnership for ing 70 women.
•
wind engineers È viva la scuola, Helpcode (Italy)
Support to the training program for wind turbine en- In partnership with Helpcode, the project aims at sup-
gineers and involvement of students belonging to the porting educational institutions in their activities, by
Piikani Nation community (indigenous population of the integrating training contents and strengthening curric-
Alberta region, Canada). ular teaching, with the additional aim of increasing the
The partnership creates opportunities for STEM educa- awareness of children on issues of topical importance
tion and access to the world of work for indigenous and for Enel such as the energy transition, digitalization and
other students living in the areas of influence of several human rights. The project also provides specific training
of our wind farms in the southern part of the province. for teachers.
For more details, please refer to ”Sustainability projects
and initiatives” in the chapter “Engaging communities”.
Communities
The second step is putting the increasing number of con-
nected home devices (home appliances, mobile technolo-
gy, heat pumps and EVs) to the best to manage energy use.
2,300 Energy suppliers and service providers can help consum-
socio-economic
ers use the power of new technology by designing easy-
development projects
to-use services and offers that reduce complexity and
costs while increasing control and gaining new revenues
(sale of the excess self-produced electricity or of unuti-
3.7
million people(1) having benefi ted lized available power capacity) and keeping technology
from inclusive and equitable quality innovation and evolution always in the radar to always pro-
education (SDG 4)
vide the most effective and relevant solutions.
Affordability of green technologies whether EVs, solar PVs,
batteries or heat pumps is a relevant barrier, especially for
4.9
million people(2) eligible
low-income and vulnerable customers who are already
for sustained, inclusive and
affected by a low spending capacity for primary energy
sustainable economic growth
uses and who might be the ones to benefit the most from
(SDG 8)
adopting them.
(1) 2015-2022 cumulated data of total SDG 4 benefi ciaries.
The enormous amount of data created by the growing role
(2) 2015-2022 cumulated data of total SDG 8 benefi ciaries.
of connected devices offers a great opportunity to engage
customers in the transition with tailored solutions but data
security and privacy shall be preserved and transparency
about how data is being used and shared must also be en-
Customers | Empowering the
sured with simple terms and conditions
transition For further details, please refer to “Clean electrification”
and “Managing human rights” chapters.
Energy and digital technologies are key enablers for em-
powering consumers through new services, better insights Customers
and more control.
Sold
The first stone that must be laid is a smart meter. This is a
piece of technology that allows customers to access their
>70,000
own consumption data more easily, increasing awareness smart home
of their energy use habits and encouraging behaviors that products
are more efficient and sustainable.
It also enables personalized electricity rates that are bet-
ter suited to different consumer habits, with dynamic and >5,000
photovoltaic
highly flexible pricing.
products
Recently improved technology also makes it possible to in-
tegrate energy consumption monitoring with smart home
management systems for electrical appliances, boilers, air
90 MW
conditioners and lights. Finally, it facilitates real time mon- approx of capacity
through solutions for renewable energy
itoring of self-produced energy from users’ own distribut-
self-production
ed generation systems, like photovoltaics and or batteries.
Below the 2022 results related to the targets of the previous 2022-2024 Sustainability Plan, the resulting progress and the
targets of the 2023-2025 Sustainability Plan, which may be redefi ned, added to, or surpassed with respect to the previous
Plan.
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
Women in selection processes (%)(1) 52.2% 50.0%
5 S
Women managers(2) and middle 24.9% managers 26.9% managers(3)
5 S
managers (%) 32.6% middle managers 34.1% middle managers(4)
31.8% managers and middle 33.4% managers and middle
managers managers(5)
Women in managerial Succession 46.1% 46.0%
5 S
Plans (%)
Women in Top Manager Succession 50.0% 45.0%
5 S
Plans (%)
Female students involved in STEM 9,887 female students involved 19,200 female students
5 S
career guidance initiatives involved in the period
8 2023-2025
Climate survey - Open Listening (%) 100% people involved(6) 100% people involved(6)
8 S
75.6% part icipants 80% part icipants
Open Feedback Evaluation - 100% people involved(6) 100% people involved(6)
8 S
Perf ormance appraisal (%)
99% appraised 99% appraised
dna
gninetsiL
redneG
lasiarppa
Empowering Enel people
Material topics (I leveI) Plan SDG
• People management,
development and
motivation
Double
materiality
People
• Enel people
(1) Selection processes involving blue-collar workers or similar technical roles as well as related to the USA and Canada perimeter are not included, due to local
regulations that do not permit gender tracking during the recruitment phase.
(2) Including female Top Managers.
(3) The target for 2030 is 32.1%.
(4) The target for 2030 is 38.1%.
(5) The target for 2030 is 37.5%.
(6) Eligible and reachable persons: those who have a permanent contract and have been in place and active for at least 3 months during the year.
Goals Progress
I Industrial E Environmental S Social
G Governance T Technological New Redefi ned Outdated Not in line In line Achieved
N.A. = not applicable
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
Average training hours “Cultural 47.4 hours 46.5 hours
4 S
Evolution” per capita
8
Digital skills – Promote training on 14% of training hours dedicated 20% of training hours dedicated
4 S
digital skills among all Enel people to develop digital skills to develop digital skills
T
Reskilling and upskilling – Promote 42% of training hours conducted 40% of training hours
4 S
reskilling and upskilling programs for on upskilling and reskilling conducted on upskilling and
8 Enel people reskilling T
Development of a new culture of 12% of training hours dedicated 10% of training hours dedicated
4 S
“Human sustainability” among our to develop human skills to develop human skills
8 people
Scholarships available for Enel people 151 scholarships 390 scholarships in the period
4 S
2023-2025
17
Disability inclusion Adopting a systemic Promote the inclusion of
8 S
approach to disability inclusion: people with disabilities at
•
10 within the scope of the launch all stages of business travel:
of a structured process to implementing inclusive work
analyze the needs of Enel travel services (adoption
people with disabilities of Global Inclusive Travel:
globally, the Enel WIN - Work assistance, accompaniment,
INclusion questionnaire was inclusive and accessible
revised; travel services)
•
several initiatives are
underway to ensure physical 80% of Enel people covered
and relational accessibility with at least one Global Inclusive
in Spain and Chile and to Travel service in 2025(7)
promote digital accessibility
in Colombia, with the aim of
spreading awareness of the
import ance of accessibility and
its benefi ts for inclusiveness;
•
in order to support the
inclusion and contribution of
people with disabilities there is
the global “Empower disability”
program enriched with global
and local initiatives, designed
to improve the overall journey
(with a focus on att raction,
inclusion and onboarding, care
and development) of people
with disabilities at Enel
The target is considered
outdated as it has been replaced
by a quantitative one
gniniarT
Read more
The Value for Disability project brings together most of the actions regarding disability
developed for colleagues in Enel’s main countries of presence, as well as for customers
and for the community.
For additional details on the project, please refer to the chapter “Managing human rights”.
(7) 47% of Enel people were covered with at least one Global Inclusive Travel service in 2022.
ytisrevid
gnicnahnE
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
•
Promoting an inclusive culture free In the main Countries where we Promotion of a bias and
5 S
of prejudice and harassment are present, specifi c initiatives harassment free inclusion
8 have been developed with the culture
aim of spreading a prejudice-
10
free culture and raising
awareness about harassment in
the workplace. Specifi cally:
•
bias training course
completed by about 33% of
Enel people
• harassment training course
completed by about 32% of
Enel people
Promotion of a multicultural The topic of intercultural 11 countries with active 5 S
workplace inclusion culture inclusion was promoted in 7 intercultural workplace
8 countries, where awareness- inclusion culture initiatives
raising and training initiatives
10
were organized on diff erent
aspects related to the theme
of cultural diversity (ethnicity,
nationality, etc.).
•
Diversity and inclusion culture N.A. N.A. Assessment of awareness
8 S
on D&I topics and
10 perceived inclusion
of people in the
organizational context
•
Defi ning a baseline for
improving the D&I strategy
Enel people in remote working Over 36,000 eligible employees Monitoring eligible employees
8 S
Overall Global Wellbeing Index 60.0% N.A. 61.0%
8 S
etaroproc
fo
ytilauQ
ytisrevid
gnicnahnE
gnieb-llew
dna
efil
Read more Read more
Among the main initiatives to increase the inclusion of diff erent By means of an annual survey, the overall Global Wellbeing Index re-
ethnicities and raise awareness of diversity, there are workshops, cords the percentage of Enel people who are quite or very much sat-
training programs and communication campaigns designed to fos- isfi ed with their general well-being (personal and working life). Due to
ter a multicultural working environment. its extensive meaning, it encompasses all factors that can infl uence
general well-being, including both exogenous factors (such as pan-
demics, socio-economic issues, politics, climate, etc.) and endoge-
nous ones, on which Enel is committ ed to intervene with its Wellbeing
and Welfare actions.
Goals Progress
I Industrial E Environmental S Social
G Governance T Technological New Redefi ned Outdated Not in line In line Achieved
N.A. = not applicable
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
Asset protection Risk Assessment Methodology Perf orming Risk Assessment in
8 S
for asset protection and 100% of the countries where the
resilience adopted in 100% of Group operates
countries
Physical protection of people Completion of the design of an Expansion of the catalog
8 S
abroad(8) online course on travel safety to content with at least 3 training
be included in eDucation catalog courses for Enel people by 2025
(8) This refers to services to mitigate the risk of assault and kidnapping for colleagues working in countries with very high levels of crime.
ytiruceS
Empowering Enel
people
2-7 2-24 3-3 401-1 404-1 405-1 405-2
The profound social, economic and cultural These dimensions are closely interrelated,
transformations that are characterizing intertwining and mutually reinforcing,
the current era, from the transition to a enabling the full expression of each
decarbonized economy to the processes of individual’s potential, with a positive
digitalization and technological innovation, impact on the sense of belonging to the
also profoundly affect the workplace. corporate community, fostering involvement,
Companies must therefore be able to attractiveness and loyalty of people, and on
transform themselves to adapt to operating the achievement of the Group’s sustainable
in scenarios of high uncertainty, volatility and results.
complexity. Acting in an inclusive manner, To ensure that our people are ready
placing the person in his or her social and to support the Group as it transitions,
working dimensions at the center, thus embracing change and adapting quickly, we
becomes indispensable to cope with this promote a continuous learning experience
epic transformation. that accompanies them throughout their
We are more than 65,000 people in Enel, personal and professional life cycles.
belonging to 86 nationalities and speaking The People and Organization Function
24 languages. defines organizational models and the
The success of our strategy rests precisely multiannual people management plan in
on our people and on a model, in place line with the Group’s strategy. The people
since 2015, of shared values and behavior: selection, management and development
the “Open Power model” (see “Enel is Open processes are governed by specific policies
Power”). and procedures that apply to the global
We are committed to promoting and and local levels, with specific sections on
enhancing knowledge, relations and the Company intranet. In order to be able
influence between different cultures, to customize the offer of empowerment,
as well as respect for human rights. facilitate all phases of personnel
Valuing diversity and individual talents is a management (recruiting, development,
fundamental prerequisite for creating an training, talent management) and thus set
inclusive corporate culture in which everyone up a decision-making process supported by
can recognize themselves, regardless of objective data, the Function has equipped
race, ethnicity, religion, gender, age, sexual itself with an analysis tool, “People Analytics”
orientation and ability. which, based on quantitative metrics and
We have strengthened our people related statistics and operating through
empowerment processes to support the platforms, allows for a real-time assessment
cultural evolution of our people, focusing of the different demographic clusters, and
on their well-being, motivation, sense of therefore also generational clusters, relevant
responsibility and active participation. for the Company.
65,124 23.4
%
ENEL PEOPLE WOMEN IN THE WORKFORCE
66,279 in 2021 -1.7% 22.5% in 2021 +0.9%
6,412 24.9
%
NEW RECRUITS WOMEN MANAGERS
(including Top Managers)
5,401 in 2021 +18.6%
23.6% in 2021 +1.3%
47.4
Average hours
TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE
44.5 average hours in 2021 +6.3%
The Statuto della Persona
of the individual.
(Charter of the Person), There are three areas:
•
well-being, participation and productivity, to promote
a cultural transformation
the protection of dignity at work, inclusiveness, absence
of prejudice, work-life balance and attention to the hu-
“A new working ecosystem where people are at the center man element;
with their well-being, participation and dignity”. This is the
•
core of the Charter of the Person, signed in Italy on March knowledge and continuous learning, a life-long learning
29, 2022 by Enel and the trade unions FILCTEM, FLAEI model, with professional training and refresher courses,
and UILTEC and rapidly disseminated throughout the women’s empowerment to encourage the choice of sci-
countries and regions where the Group operates. entific subjects (STEM), the offer of apprenticeships and
It is an innovative protocol that inaugurates a model of openness to external training contributions, including
labor relations based on the involvement of the individual the planning of specific moments to be dedicated ex-
and the Company, valuing the person in a harmonious clusively to self-training;
relationship with the surrounding world.
•
Putting the human being at the center, taking care of his safety culture and behavior, especially in the workplace,
or her needs in order to enhance their uniqueness, at with the provision of ex ante and ex post analysis of in-
all stages of life: from schooling to the transmission of jury-risk, the identification of the most innovative tech-
knowledge to future generations. nologies for accident prevention, the empowerment
A new model, conceived in the age of uncertainty par of workers and the strengthening of the safety culture
excellence, due to the Covid-19 pandemic that has in through the involvement of the supplier network.
fact transformed relations in the workplace, thus also
becoming an extraordinary opportunity for change, The Charter of the Person represents a turning point
crowning a cultural journey that had already begun some towards a virtuous mechanism of caring for relational
time ago at Enel. In energy, digital and cultural transition space in the workplace, where dignity and well-being
processes, the person becomes the success factor, the are indispensable elements. The path to sustainability
true competitive advantage. In order to cope with the undoubtedly passes through changing the production
rapid changes taking place, an inclusive path is needed, model, but also through rethinking interpersonal
all the more so in the workplace. With this in mind, the dynamics, ones that are more open and receptive to
Charter of the Person aims to value the human being by others. For Enel, people have always been at the forefront.
making him or her the protagonist of an ecosystem in This document aims not only to improve the conditions
which Company and union organizations work together of Enel’s people, but also looks outwards, to the entire
to create a healthy, safe, stimulating and participative ecosystem of suppliers and contractors that work
working environment. An environment in which well- with the Group, and opens a channel for dialogue with
being, productivity, continuous learning and safety can other companies to design an increasingly sustainable
reinforce each other, contributing to the fullest realization workplace together.
Multi-stakeholder
Finally, we took part in the Upskill 4 Future project,
initiatives focused on the employability of vulnerable workers
through the promotion of upskilling and reskilling
practices, contributing to the publication of the
In 2022, we participated in numerous initiatives and multi- “Upskilling & Reskilling Report”, in which Enel’s pilot project
stakeholder dialogues focused on social sustainability, on e-distribuzione People Business Partners (PBPs) is
with special reference to Enel people. featured.
Specifically:
World Business Council for Sustainable
CSR Europe Development
On the topic of just transition in the context of the green We participated in the “Healthy People Healthy Business”
and digital transformation, in which we participated in the project, among others, which explored the role of
group on “workforce”, as well as those on “community” businesses in developing and promoting solutions to
and “consumers”. global health challenges by supporting disease prevention
We also actively participated in the workshops organized and health promotion. The main outcome of the project
with the aim of stimulating companies to effectively was the flagship report “Healthy People, Healthy Business:
develop a people-centered approach and corporate How business can contribute to global health” launched
inclusion (“How companies can include care for people during the Annual Meeting of the Planetary Health
and well-being in the green, digital and post-pandemic Alliance. Included in the report is our people case study
transitions in their workspace”), which led to the launch entitled “Supporting healthier lifestyles of employees
at the European SDG Summit of the “Building Inclusive through innovative telemedicine”.
Workplaces” blueprint, to which we contributed the
“Gentle Leadership” case study. For further details on initiatives related to social issues,
please refer to the chapter “Our commitment to a just
transition: leaving no one behind”.
Attracting new talent
3-3 404-1 404-2 404-3 DMA EU (former EU14)
•
The 2022 global recruitment plan focused on tapping key a new system (Avature) launched in November 2022 for
roles to manage the challenge to the energy transition, the global collection and management of all internal and
capable of supporting the three main business drivers-re- external applications, central to a data-driven strategy of
newables, electrification of consumption, and digitaliza- the selection process.
tion of networks, and interpreting both new consumer
needs and the dynamics of business developments to en- In addition, all our brand pages were integrated into the
sure increasingly sustainable energy use. There was a spe- Enel Group’s, in order to optimize its positioning on the
cial focus was on STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, main external talent attraction platforms, such as LinkedIn,
Mathematics) and the search for more inclusive ways of Indeed and Glassdoor, and to ensure an integrated strate-
attracting talent. gy for all candidates.
More than 6,400 people(1) joined the Group in 2022, en-
hancing an ongoing commitment to relations with univer- In 2022, the New Onboarding Global Platform was
sities and to holding Recruiting Days globally, as a model launched, a unique, comprehensive and inclusive platform
of candidate engagement in relation to the various posi- for new hires around the world, with the objective of mak-
tions to be filled. ing all cultural and organizational content accessible to
To support the selection process, we have defined several them for their full inclusion in the Company.
initiatives, digital and otherwise, aimed at building a corpo-
rate identity that is attractive to potential candidates and In order to ensure the direct, open and transparent in-
includes the transmission of our values. volvement of every person in the Group in the selection
Among the main initiatives are: and development processes, the “Referral Program” for
•
the launch of the Talent Engagement Program, a selec- the search of talent through two pathways was also active
tion process targeting talents from the most prestigious in 2022:
•
international universities aimed at ensuring a transversal external: everyone in Enel can provide support to identi-
development and growth path within the different areas fy people in the “outside world” who might become new
of the Company; colleagues;
• •
the “A day as a colleague” campaign, aimed at fostering internal: once a year, it is possible to recommend a col-
full external knowledge of the Company’s different pro- league for advancement in their professional develop-
fessions, through the amplification on social channels of ment.
“a typical day as a colleague” with its operational activ-
ities, relations with co-workers, the story of its shared Over 14,000 reports were made during 2022.
passions and how these often dovetail into everyday
work; Finally, mobility at work was enhanced again in 2022, en-
•
specific advertising campaigns targeted at increasing abling people to open up to new professional challenges,
the visibility of job offers, especially with a view to gender facilitating the diversification of competencies, and cre-
equality and full inclusiveness, launched during 2022 to ating increasingly horizontal profiles. In order to promote
support specific recruiting needs and which saw a posi- people centricity, increasing attention has been paid to the
tive engagement rate; e-profile tool as an opportunity to enhance a person’s hard
•
a complete restyling of the “Careers” section of the and soft skills, aspirations and motivations for change.
enel.com website, aimed at improving candidate en- In 2022, the internal job posting tool was also opened to
gagement thanks to an optimized user experience and the Group’s new management positions in order to pro-
access to content providing a complete overview of the mote full global participation of the entire corporate pop-
Company and a more user-friendly consultation of the ulation.
various vacancies in the Group;
(1) Fixed-term contracts are used to a limited extent, to cope with peaks in activity or to temporarily replace workers on prolonged leave (e.g., maternity/pater-
nity leave, etc.) and provide for salaries equal to those of permanent workers.
Continuous learning to encourage
our people to participate in cultural evolution
•
The participation of people in the cultural and system- an innovative and deeply absorbing training course with
ic transition associated with the decarbonization of the the application of neuroscience aimed at Top Manag-
economy and digitalization, which requires new skills, pro- ers, which also included an in-depth look at the biases
fessionalism, and flexibility of adaptation, necessitates the related to managerial skills and female leadership;
•
provision of a continuous learning experience that accom- Job Shadowing, Mentoring and Coaching, for raising
panies them throughout their personal and professional awareness and expressing talents. The courses con-
life cycle on a “circular path”, beginning with the school ducted enabled people to increase their network of re-
phase that precedes their entry into the workforce. In a lationships, exchange ideas and points of view and fos-
self-sustaining virtuous loop, the final phase of their work- tered self-learning, inter-culturalism and the sharing of
ing life will be dominated by the “restitution” of accumulat- experiences and skills. In particular, Mentoring, which is
ed knowledge to future generations and to the ecosystem. based on the sharing of soft skills and the generosity of
“Knowledge and lifelong learning” is also one of the pillars mentors who provide less experienced colleagues with
on which the Charter of the Person is based. a role model, stories of successes and failures, saw the
Moreover, valuing individual talent also means caring for involvement of around 670 people globally in 2022;
•
the well-being of the individual through the creation of an the adoption of the “Learning Time” provided for in the
inclusive and prejudice-free environment, in a non-judg- “Charter of the Person”, which will allow our people to set
mental context, where everyone can feel fully embraced in aside moments for training only, in which they can de-
their uniqueness and encouraged to express themselves, vote themselves to skills development, personal growth
without any distinction of race, ethnicity, religion, gender, or participation in community empowerment initiatives;
•
age, sexual orientation and ability. training initiatives involving Enel people in the role of
“Internal Trainers” and which in the last year saw more
It is in this context that the following activities took place than 500,000 hours delivered with an average of about
in 2022: 8 hours per person;
• •
“Soft Leadership Global Program”, a course targeted at the global “Train the Trainers” project, which aims to
all Enel people with the intention of raising awareness identify new trainers and strengthen their role within our
and stimulating the adoption of behaviors and practices corporate culture, making it global and sustainable over
consistent with the “gentle leadership” model at all levels time, enhancing talent and increasing the effectiveness
of the organization. It is a program of cultural orientation of training. In 2022, four training sessions involving about
towards a leadership model increasingly focused on di- 100 in-house Italian trainers were organized, and new
alogue and the exchange of ideas, inspired by trust, and sessions will be delivered in Italy and globally in 2023.
focused on the enhancement of talents and the expres-
sion of autonomy, rather than on control and scrutiny. Another strategic pillar for Enel, also present in the Charter
The program is co-designed with the targets, who be- of the Person, concerns “retraining and professional up-
come the protagonists of the dissemination phase. Fif- dating, up/reskilling, self-learning and knowledge trans-
teen global events were organized, some of them direct- fer”. In order to support the green and digital transition,
ed to the population of People Business Partners (PBPs), enhance innovation, economic growth, promote econom-
internal figures dedicated to listening to and dialoguing ic and social inclusion and ensure quality employment, the
with people, capable of capturing individual aspirations various Schools & Academies have disseminated programs
and integrating them with the needs of the organization. for upgrading existing skills to access more advanced ca-
These were part of the Cultural Innovation Journey ded- reer paths (upskilling) and learning new skills (reskilling),
icated to them, whereby frameworks and gentle leader- also enhancing transversal and soft skills. These pathways
ship guidelines were shared for subsequent outreach to were also implemented in collaboration with university and
the people they manage. In addition, PBPs were involved academic partners.
in the identification of about 600 Kindness Ambassa-
dors, belonging to all Business Lines and Countries, with During 2022, the cost dedicated to training was approxi-
the aim of driving a concrete cultural evolution by dis- mately 30 million euros, with an average cost per employ-
seminating and promoting the key behaviors and values ee of 455 euros; training involved 96% of the population
of soft leadership throughout the organization; with more than 3.1 million hours dedicated to cultural
evolution (up from around 2.9 million hours in the previous matic areas, based on micro-learning, which made it pos-
year), amounting to more than 47 average hours per capita sible to provide more courses and thus involve more peo-
(over 44 average hours per capita in 2021). Of these, hours ple. On the other hand, this strategy led to a decrease in
dedicated to up/reskilling amounted to more than 1.3 mil- the number of total training hours in some areas, due to
lion, or about 42% of the total, while those dedicated to the short duration of the courses and the already high
human skills amounted to about 380,000, or 12%. general level of specialization, such as in the case of digital
In 2022, the process of evolution towards a new training skills, for which 430,000 hours were provided (14% of the
model led to the adoption of a more flexible, high-fre- total training hours), which is lower than the targets
quency and continuous type of delivery, in different the- planned for 2022 (20%).
Digital skills
POWERCODERS PROJECT
for the new generations
For us, diversity is a value and an accelerator of
and to promote multiculturalism
knowledge sharing and intermingling of experience. It
and inclusion is an indispensable factor of human enrichment, before
that of professional enrichment, that training triggers
to accompany the energy and digital transformation
Learning through play: the CODY PROJECT process and to provide a concrete opportunity for
employment for the most vulnerable.
There is no sustainable development without quality It was with this conviction, as part of the ongoing
education that is inclusive and equitable in ensuring commitment to initiatives that enhance multiculturalism
continuous learning. Sustainable development today is and digital skills, which are indispensable for the future
inseparable from digital transformation, and it is within of innovation in our ecosystem and fundamental for the
this framework that the subject of technology also realization of industrial goals and sustainable progress,
becomes an educational tool at the service of training that the partnership with Powercoders Italia was
and promotes learning that is customized to contexts and launched.
needs, starting with young students. In 2022, Enel became part of the Powercoders Italia
The Enel Cody Robot Adventure initiative, in partnership project, a computer programming (coding) academy
with the multi-channel community-driven developer for refugees. It thus became part of a network that
platform Codemotion, was created precisely to help already included Reale Foundation, Fondazione Italiana
prepare students for future challenges as key players in Accenture, in collaboration with UNHCR – UN Refugee
the digital transformation. Enel Cody Robot Adventure is Agency in Italy, which offers three-month intensive
in fact an online educational game made of challenges courses and placement in companies operating in the
that, through gamification, accompanies children IT sector, with six-month paid internships. As of 2022,
and young people to learn coding, logic concepts, Powercoders has extended participation in training to
computational thinking, sequencing and problem solving the so-called NEETs (Not in Education, Employment or
in a simple and interactive way. The logic behind the Enel Training).
Cody Robot Adventure is that of visual coding through Underlying the project is the desire to promote cultural
the block programming system: each participant can diversity and meet the labor market’s need for digital
intuitively solve the challenges set, learning while having profiles with knowledge of programming languages.
fun. The aim is therefore to get children and young people Bringing together people from different backgrounds
interested in some digital skills that are essential for their and cultures, with different aptitudes and experiences,
future, such as robotics and programming, stimulating triggers creativity and innovation through an intensive
curiosity and creativity, while discovering the main and specialized training model that enables those with
aspects of the Company’s strategy and values. basic coding skills to obtain a diploma certifying that
they are prepared for the workplace. This project, which
The training course, which ended in December and
was supported and underwritten by Enel, resulted in 25
students of different nationalities (i.e., Afghanistan, Sierra
Leone, Nigeria, Syria, Ukraine, Liberia, Cameroon, India,
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Bhutan and Italy) aged between 21 and
40, being awarded diplomas.
Obtaining the qualification allowed the new graduates
to enter the selection circuit of companies interested
in digital profiles and to take advantage of job
opportunities that Enel also offered.
The collaboration undertaken represents a model
of social innovation aimed at creating shared value
dovetails neatly into the broader ongoing transition through the inclusion of the most vulnerable segments
and digitalization process, promotes the value of of the workforce, in the conviction that it is increasingly
cultural diversity and equal opportunities, encourages important to help them build the necessary digital skills
the expression of uniqueness in teamwork and the to seize the opportunities present in the labor market
employment of vulnerable people, and at the same time and ensure an increasingly inclusive and sustainable
meets the need to bridge the “digital shortage”. socio-economic development that is enriched by the
contribution and qualities of everyone.
Valuing and enhancing
Open Power values of Trust, Responsibility, Innovation
our people and Proactivity;
•
“Generosity”, intended as the propensity to enter into
2022 saw the widespread dissemination of the new “Gen- relationships with others, dedicating time to acknowl-
tle Leadership Model”, which is based on the importance of edging talent and getting involved in turn, requesting
combining well-being and motivation to generate sustain- feedback proactively, thus generating a mechanism of
able results over time. In this context is included the quan- individual and collective growth;
•
titative and qualitative performance appraisal process for “Action”, i.e. the ability, as assessed by managers vis-
2022, which involved, as always, the people of the Group a-vis their staff, to achieve professional goals based
at different levels, in a process of constant exchange and on objectives assigned by the manager or proactively
comparison that shifts the focus toward the organizational self-proposed by the staff themselves.
network as a model of growth and self-empowerment, as
opposed to a hierarchical model. With a view to increasingly enhancing the value of the in-
The global evaluation model is the Open Feedback Eval- dividual, 2022 saw the transition from the system based
uation (OFE), which encourages constant listening and on assessment for access to managerial positions to the
exchange of feedback on skills acted upon and results development of an empowerment path that supports
achieved, all aimed at enhancing everyone’s talent to build people in becoming aware of their talents, skills, aptitudes,
a constructive, transparent and no-stone-unturned ex- orientations and aspirations, supporting them in the most
change between people, networks and managers, in full complex organizational roles. In this context, new selection
compliance with the Code of Ethics. criteria were introduced in the annual succession plan for
The program, which has involved 100% of the Group’s eligi- management positions, aimed at including and enhanc-
ble people,(2) comprises three interdependent dimensions, ing diversity. In particular, the age limit for access to the
with three discussion meetings between managers and succession plan has been removed, and a criterion was in-
employees over the course of the year: troduced to ensure a fair representation of women among
•
“Talent”, consisting of highlighting one’s individual skills the successors, and the inclusion of white collar was en-
based on the 15 Soft Skills Model and linked to the 4 couraged.
(2) Eligible and reachable: those who have a permanent contract and were employed and active in the relevant evaluation period during the three periods of 2022.
Listening and dialogue
2-29
Enel has always been keen to promote initiatives aimed at Finally, Enel considers internal communication a mainstay
listening to Group employees. At the end of 2022, a new in the creation of corporate culture, people growth and
wave of Open Listening was launched, a global listening the growth of the organization, stimulating and promoting
channel aimed at surveying the corporate climate periodi- the exchange of information, know-how and experience.
cally throughout the year. 75.6% of the Group’s employees Internal communications are also the main vector to dis-
responded to the 2022 survey, providing useful insights seminate the Enel strategy and the objectives identified
into their mood, well-being and job satisfaction through for the near future. In this regard, the periodic “Strategic
constant listening on issues relevant to the Group (includ- alignment tracking” survey, an additional listening tool
ing work-life balance, networking, training, diversity and used to monitor employee sentiment and understand their
inclusion), with an overall job satisfaction (engagement) level of knowledge with regard to specific projects tar-
rate of 89.6% of those involved. geted at them, showed that, among the internal projects
Constant listening aims to put people at the center of the aimed at developing and improving employee well-being
Group’s strategy, which increasingly uses analytics to re- and quality of work, employees give the highest priority to
spond to different needs with targeted action plans. the following:
•
Other listening initiatives were carried out in relation to People caring and well-being;
•
well-being and disability (see section “The value of unique- Job opportunity;
•
ness and care” of this chapter). Innovation and personal entrepreneurship.
With regard to Enel’s projects and initiatives that contrib-
Another essential element in listening to and engaging ute to the improvement of the communities in which the
our people are the People Business Partners, figures ded- Company is present, the following are those considered by
icated to listening and dialogue with people, able to grasp employees to be the most important to pursue:
•
individual aspirations and integrate them with the organi- Customer centricity;
•
zation’s needs. Contributing to the SDGs;
•
Technological innovation.
The value of uniqueness and care
3-3 405-1
The steps of inclusion in Enel
At Enel, inclusion, well-being, participation and value cre-
ation are closely linked, as also indicated in the Charter of
the Person (see the box in this chapter). In fact, inclusion The steps leading to the current state begin in 2013 with the
means enhancing and expressing the unique mix of tal- publication of the Policy on Human Rights, followed in 2015
ents, skills, aptitudes, visible and invisible aspects of each by Enel’s adherence to the seven Women’s Empowerment
of our people, so as to ensure well-being and motivation, Principles (WEP) promoted by UN Global Compact and UN
bringing out the unexpressed potential within the orga- Women and the simultaneous publication of the Diversi-
nization and thus contributing to growth. This is possible ty and Inclusion (D&I) Policy. This policy makes explicit the
through actions that spread the culture of inclusiveness at principles of non-discrimination, equal opportunities, digni-
all levels of the organization and act on the enhancement ty, work-life balance and inclusion of every person, beyond
of individual specificities, the uniqueness of the person all forms of diversity. 2019 also saw the addition of the Work-
and care in life situations that impact on work by creating place Harassment Policy, which introduced the themes of
awareness, relationships and participation. respect, integrity and individual dignity in the workplace in
the prevention of all types of harassment, principles that
were the basis of the Statement against Harassment in the
workplace, published on Enel’s website(3) in 2020. In 2021,
(3) https://www.enel.com/content/dam/enel-com/documenti/investitori/sostenibilita/enel-statement-against-harassment.pdf.
the Global Digital Accessibility Policy was issued to ensure Networks and/or communities within the Group (Employee
equal access to digital information and systems. Resource Groups – ERG) on various topics related to inclu-
Governance on the issues of uniqueness and people care sion and diversity are growing:
•
is entrusted to a dedicated unit at Holding level, namely, inclusion: the “Comunidad de inclusión” in Spain;
•
People Care and Diversity Management, which has the task gender: “Yin Yang” in Mexico, “Women in Leadership” in
of defining and implementing initiatives at global level, en- Chile, “Women in Energy” in Peru, “Her Community” in
suring the coordination and monitoring of local events and Greece, “The Ladies’ Room” for the Enel X European coun-
the sharing of best practices. At the local level there are also tries, “Women EmPower” in the United States and Canada,
specific “Equal Opportunity Committees” in Italy and Spain, “gender community” in Brazil, “Power Her” in Spain; “WIL –
in which the social partners also participate, which contrib- Women innovation lab” in Chile;
•
ute to the identification of needs and the proposal of solu- disability: the global “Disability community network” dedi-
tions on inclusion issues, while in Colombia, Peru, and Mex- cated to the focal points for disability, the “Comunidad de
ico there are specific Diversity & Inclusion Committees that inclusión” in Spain, the “Disability community” in Italy, the
direct and monitor activities on D&I issues. “Anne Sullivan” in Mexico and the “People with Disability
The growing focus on these issues is also evidenced by the community” in Brazil;
•
activation of alliances and collaborations with the external ethnicity & cultural diversity: “Ethnicity Community” in Bra-
ecosystem of associations and networks, which are com- zil, “Chontalli” and “Expat network” in Mexico, “Cultural Pow-
mitted to supporting companies and institutions. In many er” in the United States and Canada;
•
countries, there are active partnerships with international LGBTQ+: “Just Be” in Mexico, “Un equipo con orgullo” in
organizations that operate in different countries and re- Chile, “LGBTQ+ community” in Spain, “Pride in Power” in the
gions or are in the process of internationalization. United States and Canada, “LGBTQ+ community” in Brazil;
•
In 2022, Enel actively participated in the D&I round tables age: “Beyond Generations” in Mexico, “Generations com-
of the Business Commission to Tackle Inequality coordi- munity” in Brazil;
•
nated by the World Business Council for Sustainable De- care: “Parenting” in Mexico;
•
velopment (WBCSD) and the Business for Inclusive Growth, veterans: “Proud To Serve” in the United States and Canada;
•
the partnership between OECD and the coalition of CEOs of well-being: “Empowerment and Balance” in the United
companies united by their commitment to tackle inequality States and Canada.
of income and opportunity.
On cross-cutting issues, for example, Italy and Brazil are part
An evidence-based inclusive
of the UN Global Compact Network, Italy is associated with
Fondazione Sodalitas and is a signatory of the EU Diversity culture
Charter, while Brazil collaborates on equity and human rights
with the Ethos Institute. Spreading the culture of inclusion at Enel also means mea-
On gender issues, Brazil, Costa Rica and Colombia are sig- suring and setting precise targets. That is why an essential
natories of the WEP (Women Empowerment Principles), Co- part of our work is dedicated to turning phenomena into
lombia is certified Equipares, the USA and Canada are active numbers and driving change from an analysis thereof. In
in the Target Gender Equality Network and the Women’s En- 2022, the People Care and D&I dashboard was implement-
ergy Network, while Italy has participated in the Target Gen- ed, allowing stakeholders to gain visibility into outcomes
der Equality Accelerator round tables. and trends to guide strategies.
In terms of LGBTQ+ rights, Chile and Mexico are associated It represents an approach to the individual that is embodied
with Pride Connection and Italy with Parks Liberi e Uguali, in the definition of a specific diversity policy regarding the
the USA and Canada are affiliated with the Human Rights composition of the Board of Directors(4) and specific objec-
Campaign, while to promote the attraction of young talent tives and actions published in the Plan and in the Sustain-
Guatemala is associated with the South American Employ- ability Report, approved by the corporate bodies.
ees for Youth network. Specifically:
•
Enel also supports the internationalization of local associa- carry out an assessment of the general level of inclusion;
•
tions and networks: in Italy, for example, it participates in in- balance the percentage of women in selection processes;
•
ter-company working groups to expand the scope of action increase the representation of women managers and
of Valore D, of which it is a founding member, and of the Elis middle managers and that of women in management
Consortium, which supports the Italian national education succession plans;
•
system in the training of young people with specific atten- increase the number of female students involved in STEM
tion to girls and their access to STEM professions. awareness initiatives;
(4) In 2018, the Board adopted a specific “Diversity Policy of the Board of Directors of Enel SpA”, https://www.enel.com/content/dam/enel-com/documenti/
investitori/governance/statuto-regolamenti-politiche/en/diversity-policy-of-the-board-of-directors.pdf.
•
promote projects for the inclusion of Enel people with livery of the two global courses:
•
disabilities at all stages of the employee journey; Beyond Bias, an educational initiative that promotes
•
promote the dissemination of a bias-free culture, in- awareness of the main prejudices we may encounter
ter-culturally sensitive initiatives and flexible forms of in the working environment, through ironic and surre-
working arrangements. al sketches that indicate possible avenues of escape to
avoid falling into the trap. As of 2022, the course is as-
The proven commitment and transparency to gender in- signed to the entire Company population and has seen
clusion has been confirmed by Enel’s presence in major the involvement of more than 33% of assignees and
ESG rankings, ratings, and indices (see the chapter “We about 26% of managers and top managers;
•
empower sustainable progress”): Harassment in the Workplace explores, in fictional form,
•
inclusion for the fourth time of the Group and its sub- four realistic cases of harassment related to age, disabil-
sidiaries Endesa and Enel Chile in Bloomberg’s Gender ity, LGBTQ+ and sexual discrimination, in various types
Equality Index, which recognized in particular innovative of conduct (visual, verbal, disparaging). The course illus-
practices in terms of gender diversity, conciliation and trates Enel’s Global Harassment Policy by providing hints
harassment prevention; for recognizing cases of harassment and indicating pre-
•
confirmed for the fourth consecutive year as being ventive behavior. As of 2022 it is delivered to the entire
among the top 100 companies, and first Italian company, corporate population(5) and has seen the involvement of
of Equileap’s Gender Equality Global Report & Ranking more than 32% of the assignees.
for promoting gender diversity, well-being, work-life in-
tegration and ensuring a working environment that re- On the other hand, at Country level, there are several ini-
spects human rights and is free from harassment; tiatives for the prevention of harassment, such as Chile’s
•
confirmed in the Refinitiv Diversity and Inclusion Index, “#RespetarEsEnergía” campaign.
ranked first in the industry grouping “Electric Utilities
and Independent Power Producers” and 30th in the top
The power of intergenerationality
100 for initiatives in terms of gender diversity, disability
and work-life balance.
At national level, Spain was awarded the “Distintivo de Ig- The dimension of intergenerationality is an increasingly cen-
ualdad” en la Empresa by the Ministry of Equal Opportu- tral and relevant issue for companies and institutions, and the
nities, the “Distintivo de Igualidad” award by the “Club de exchange of skills and experience is indeed a key element for
Excelencia en Sostenibilidad” and received the Pioneras IT value creation.
award by the College of Telecommunications Engineers for This is why the global People EngAger project was con-
STEM promotion initiatives. In addition, Mexico once again ceived. It introduces a resource recognized and certified by
received the Distintivo “Éntrale” for initiatives implement- the Company with the aim of supporting the evolution pro-
ed for the inclusion of people with disabilities; Enel North cess in the organization both in the phase of new hires and
America for the second time, and the Enel Group for the in the internal mobility between functions, business areas
first time, were also included in the Disability Equality Index. and countries where the Group maintains a presence. This
resource enables intergenerational exchange by stimulating
dialogue on values, experiences and skills, ensuring the ability
Uniqueness that makes
to navigate the complexity of the context independently and
the difference acquire rapidly the knowledge associated with the role.
Several initiatives have been developed on the subject in dif-
ferent countries:
•
At Enel, the evolution of the culture of inclusion has been Italy: led the webinar “Generations Included” which explores
supported over the years by intensive communications the diversity of each generation and its biases, with the aim
and awareness-raising at every level and in every organi- of creating cross-generational collaboration networks;
•
zational context. Spain: continues with the “Nuestros mayores valores” initia-
Each year, a specific theme has been developed that has in- tive to recognize the talent of more experienced colleagues;
•
spired both the campaigns and the numerous events held. Chile: launched communication campaigns for the Inter-
In 2022, the concept of the uniqueness of the individual in national Youth Day and International Day of Older Persons
its relational and organizational dimensions was explored with the aim of generating intrinsic motivation based on
with the global event YOUniqueness makes the difference. sharing between seniors and juniors;
•
The dissemination of awareness-raising campaigns on the Mexico: organized a training webinar on personal finance
issues of bias and harassment also continued with the de- for millennials;
(5) Except for the USA and Canada where courses required by local regulations are provided.
•
Peru: with the “Diversiedades” initiative, it created specific participated in the “Pride Race”. Colombia was awarded
workshops with the aim of promoting multi-generational the Friendly Biz Corporate seal and produced a podcast
talent within the organization; on human rights and sexual diversity. Costa Rica and Peru
•
Brazil: implemented initiatives to strengthen integration respectively offered in-depth discussions on sexuality and
without age discrimination, through activities such as the a training program divided into 4 meetings to explore dif-
“Mi experiencia Enel” meeting for young professionals; ferent topics related to the LGBTQ+ world.
•
US: “Diversity, Sensitivity & Inclusion in the Workplace”
course was launched in 2022 with a focus on age discrimi-
Cultures in dialogue
nation as well as gender, disability and LGBTQ+;
•
Colombia: conducted training sessions for trainees and ap-
prentices on personal skills and branding held by colleagues With 86 nationalities and 24 languages, Enel considers cul-
and launched the “Potential Talent” project, which promotes tural and ethnic diversity to be an extraordinary asset and
customized development paths for young talents. is committed to promoting and enhancing knowledge, rela-
tionship and intermingling among different cultures.
In order to carry out a comprehensive mapping of ethnic
LGBTQ+ uniqueness
and cultural diversity, please note that in most of the coun-
tries where we are present there are legal and privacy pro-
LGBTQ+ issues are receiving increasing attention interna- tection constraints that do not allow its collection, while in
tionally, and many Group countries have promoted mea- Argentina, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Panama, Mexico, Peru,
sures, awareness-raising and training initiatives, and com- South Africa, Canada, Brazil and the United States it is only
munication campaigns to reflect on inclusive language, possible to request such information on a voluntary basis.
shed light on stereotypes and explore specific aspects of Specific initiatives in favor of intercultural diversity in its var-
people’s lives. ious forms have been launched in many countries:
•
Among the specific measures, in addition to the parental Italy: the intercultural awareness webinar “Different from
leave, already recognized, in 2022 Italy extended to same- whom?” was organized and the project Powercoders was
sex couples in civil marriages the system of protections launched (see dedicated box);
•
and facilities for parental and care purposes (parental leave Brazil: with the “Inclusive Estagio” project, more than 30%
for childcare, leave and absences recognized for parents of internship positions were filled by black candidates and
with severely disabled children and in the event of death days against racial discrimination were celebrated;
•
or serious infirmity of the child), while in Peru the extension Chile: organized webinars on native cultures, dedicated
of health insurance coverage to same-sex cohabiting cou- an initiative for expat colleagues and celebrated Migrants’
ples is active. In Italy and Chile, the “Guidelines on Gender Day;
•
Transition for Inclusion” of colleagues in transition have Colombia and Central America (Panama, Costa Rica and
also been adopted. Guatemala): a memo was issued to promote the cultur-
Various initiatives have been organized to promote the al and linguistic integration of colleagues from the four
creation of a safe and inclusive working environment and countries;
•
to support colleagues in their role as parents, also in col- Peru: webinars, a podcast and a challenge on intercultural
laboration with external associations and networks that diversity were realized;
•
promote the enhancement of talent regardless of identity, Mexico: produced a guide on the country, its traditions
gender expression and sexual orientation (Parks Liberi e and culture for the integration of new colleagues from
Uguali in Italy, the REDI network in Spain, Pride Connec- other countries;
•
tion in Colombia, Chile and Mexico). In Argentina, webinars North America: implemented awareness-raising initia-
were organized on gender prejudice. Italy offered meet- tives during Black History Month and through the “Cultural
ings targeted at all colleagues and one entitled “Do I tell Power” ERG.
my parents or not?”, aimed at parents with homosexual, At a global level, a mentor is provided to foster the integra-
bisexual and transgender children. The USA and Canada tion of expatriate colleagues in the destination countries. In
spread awareness on LGTBQ+ history and equal rights. addition, to train interpersonal sensitivity and communica-
Brazil has launched a number of communication cam- tion and reduce the risk of misunderstandings in multicul-
paigns and webinars to disseminate and raise awareness tural contexts, the global online course WIRED – Connect-
of the issue. Chile has launched an initiative aimed at the ing Intercultural Skills is freely available for all colleagues on
internal LGBTQ+ group and a communication campaign to e-ducation. The course allows for reflection on the biases
raise awareness of the use of inclusive language through and coaching skills that foster intercultural inclusion and, in
the #mipronombre initiative, which calls for respect for a specific section, offer monographic guides that explore
gender identities and the promotion of recognition for the specificities of different cultural contexts.
all, also setting up sharing spaces where sexual diversity
can be openly discussed and ideas exchanged. Mexico
Taking action to close
the gender gap
Gender gap:
3-3 405-1 405-2 the action plan
including direct and
Enel’s efforts to close the gender gap and ensure pay eq-
indirect measures
uity continue with tangible results through actions and
initiatives that influence all phases of women’s journey in
the organization: from representation at entry level to em- 44.4 15
powerment and development in positions of responsibility, % %
women women in executive
paying attention to various relevant moments in life, such
on the BoD positions
as becoming parents and personal or family care.
23.4 46.1
% %
women in the female successors
workforce
24.9 52.2
% %
women managers women
in selection pools
GENDER GAP: the action plan,
direct and indirect measures
The action plan consists of measures that directly
and indirectly affect equal pay, given the fact that the
gradual increase in female representation at different
organizational levels is a prerequisite for natural
generational exchange and thus for achieving parity in
remuneration over time.
Enel guarantees equal pay for equal tasks and seniority
for all new managers through internal development.
•
By 2022, the presence of women in management suc-
•
The Board of Directors (BoD) of Enel SpA consists of cession plans was steadily increasing: 46.1% female
44.4% women. successors in management plans and 50% in top man-
•
At the end of 2022, women accounted for 23.4% of the agement plans.
•
Group’s entire workforce, up from 22.5% in 2021. In the past year, the percentage of women in the Group
•
In 2022, 24.9% of managers were women(6) (23.6% in working in STEM roles reached 21% compared to 18%
2021) and held 15% of executive positions (CEO-1) (3 in 2021.
•
out of 20), while 32.6% of middle managers were fe- Selection processes are closely monitored to ensure a
male (31.4% in 2021). fair balance of the two genders in the candidate pools,
with a rising trend in the last five years (52.2% in 2022
compared to 39.0% in 2018).(7)
(6) Women working in managerial roles (managers and middle managers) in revenue-generating business areas account for 28.3% of the total number of peo-
ple in these areas, up from 23.3% in the 2021 Report.
(7) Selection processes involving blue-collar workers and similar technical roles are not included (as of 2021), nor is the US and Canadian perimeter, due to local
anti-discrimination legislation that does not allow gender monitoring at the recruiting stage.
The Long-Term-Incentive Plan 2022 supports these of men’s wages, is influenced by the steadily increasing
trends by confirming a performance target, with an trend over the years in the number of women, whose
increased weight from 5% to 10% of the total, represented shorter tenures, given their seniority in the position, go to
by the “percentage of women in top management affect the average gender remuneration in the short and
succession plans” at the end of 2024 with the aim of medium term.
giving continuity to a policy of preparing a suitable
audience for managerial appointments in the near future. To confirm its commitment to these issues, since 2021
The processes for managing succession plans and salary Enel has been participating in the “Equal by 30” campaign
reviews are governed by specific policies, and constant promoted by Clean Energy Ministerial (CEM), the initiative
monitoring of remuneration for all positions is carried whereby various public and private sector organizations
out. A dedicated budget has been allocated beginning have committed to promoting gender equality in terms
2019 to ensure equal pay for equal work, in cases where a of pay, leadership and opportunities in the clean energy
mismatch is found. sector by 2030. Three specific commitments have been
For the purpose of monitoring equal pay, an overall made to raising the awareness of an increasing number
maintenance of the Equal Remuneration Ratio (ERR) of of girls towards STEM disciplines and professions, fair
81% was noted. The calculation of the ERR, based on the representation of women in selection shortlists, and
aggregate average of women’s wages over the average growth in the number of women in managerial positions.
As far as the parental dimension globally there is the “Pa- tries where the Group is present, this program is comple-
rental Program”, which aims to promote organizational mented by further local initiatives to support parenthood.
and personal awareness of the culture of parenting and to
reconcile personal and professional needs related to this Commitment to the promotion of women’s presence has
phase of life, which is crucial for both parental roles. The been growing over the years to supporting initiatives that
program is based on the values of trust, care and engage- promote the presence of women in study and professional
ment, and provides for a structured process of interviews pathways in STEM fields, in conjunction with schools, uni-
between the new parent, the manager and the People versities and institutions, to overcome gender stereotypes
Business Partner, before and after maternity and paterni- and disseminate the importance of the technical and sci-
ty leave. The program is supported by a single information entific culture, increasingly integrated with the humanistic
point that offers all the information, services and training dimension. These STEM awareness and orientation initia-
initiatives relevant in facilitating a return to the Company, tives involved almost 10,000 female high school students
in supporting work-life balance, and in promoting the mo- in 2022 and more than 30,000 female students in the last
tivation and organization of activities. In the various coun- six years.(8)
(8) From 2022, the figure includes initiatives involving only primary and secondary schools.
Back to school:
for enrolling in a STEM faculty.
•
Enel’s first global STEM “The empathetic relationship is the key to the success
of the project because, on the one hand, it strengthens
and empowerment initiative
the girls’ desire to emulate and, on the other, it
increases the passion and generosity of the female
2022 saw the launch of Back to school, a global initiative colleagues who tell of their experience”, says Silvana
involving no less than 12 countries (Spain, Italy, Greece, Ceravolo, head of Rewarding and Mobility, who is
South Africa, India and then Colombia, Chile, Peru, Brazil, behind the project.
•
Argentina, Romania, USA and Canada) and more than “Having an outlook on the future and work can help to
4,000 students, almost 76% of them girls. overcome one’s limitations and not be afraid to embark
Simplicity, scalability and experiential learning are on technical paths”. Gaia, Italy.
•
the hallmarks that have made this initiative a success “During the presentation I was very impressed. It was
story featuring 68 female STEM professionals who very different from what my classmates and I were used
have returned to schools – in some cases to the very to, a new method of teaching”. Aggeletou, Greece.
•
schools from which they graduated – to talk about their “I want to become an engineer and this experience
experiences. has offered me insights for my professional growth”.
Back to school brings together two mutually enriching Mapanzule, South Africa.
worlds. Young people in search of prospects and the
awareness that will allow them to choose the educational It was an important and generative experience for
path to forge the future they desire, and female managers our colleagues as well. We gathered feedback and
whose generosity and empathy point to “new scenarios”, impressions from some of them:
•
overcoming the “walls” of stereotypes and prejudices that “It was generative to share my knowledge and the
unfortunately still limit women’s access to technical and knowledge that there are no limits”, says Alisha, wind
scientific faculties. and solar plant manager.
•
Through Back to school, students in their third and fourth “Typical female skills are also needed in technical fields”.
year of high school have had and will have the opportunity Daniela, head of Spare Parts Optimization.
•
to access career counselling, have conversations on “It was nice to interact with the students and tell them
specific topics to make their study and professional that there is no such thing as male or female work”, are
choices more informed, and have shadowing meetings, the words of Sonia, plant supervisor.
i.e. days spent working alongside a professional to begin Finally, the contribution of a manager, Aurora Viola, head
to understand the mechanisms, the language of the of Market Italy and mother of a STEM girl: “The future is
workplace and the opportunities offered by STEM fields of called STEM, as all professions will need these skills and
study. women cannot miss this opportunity. I tell girls not to
imitate others in order to be accepted, not to be afraid of
In Italy, the Back to school program also included the making mistakes and feel guilty about it, but always to try
launch of a contest that saw a number of female students again. Back to school is an opportunity to break down the
awarded financial contributions to cover university fees many stereotypes still present”.
There are also numerous STEM initiatives implemented lo- portance of leadership inspired by female role models, as
cally in the various countries where the Group is present. many video clips were produced, translated into the main
In particular, in Italy with the “STEM Lab”, online introduc- languages and made available on the e-learning platform
tion courses in coding have been activated for all children for all colleagues.
and young children of employees (aged 8 to 10) to sup- Through the Gender Equality and Women Empowerment
port digital literacy (see the “Powercoders Project” box). In (G.E.W.E.) program, a global observatory of country-led
Colombia and Central America, we highlight the “Panel de initiatives on the subject has been set up. There are more
mujeres Enel sin fronteras” project, in which female col- than 200 initiatives covering all stages of women’s careers
leagues share the challenges, opportunities and perspec- within the organization as well as those aimed at attracting
tives for women working in technical contexts. In Romania, female talent from outside.
with “Empower girls”, workshops were initiated with upper Some initiatives have been recognized as good practices
secondary school students to inspire and orient them to- and a program has been launched to extend them to dif-
wards STEM studies. In Spain, the “Ella te cuenta” initiative ferent countries:
•
continues, through webinars conducted by students who “Getting to know each other”, mentoring and shadowing
have been awarded scholarships from the “FEU Institute meetings between managers and young women aimed
of Technology”, to stress the importance of technical skills at fostering their visibility in the organization;
•
to meet major global challenges, and the “Code” training “WomENergy – Feminine Synergy”, a networking event
project for the children of colleagues has been activated. between Business Lines involving female managers
“Students job shadowing” in Brazil is an important oppor- and female colleagues with the aim of expanding their
tunity for young female students to experience the work- professional network and encouraging the increase of
place, supported by an Enel professional. women in succession plans;
•
“Gender awareness”, an initiative launched in Brazil and
Numerous initiatives have been implemented to develop aimed at People Business Partners to disseminate a gen-
women’s empowerment within the organization, ranging der equality culture at all levels of the organization;
•
from cultural change, managerial development and men- “WoMen in”, an initiative launched in Mexico involving fo-
toring, coaching and shadowing programs to training, up- cus groups composed of representative samples of the
skilling and reskilling. corporate population to identify actions to implement
Based on the experience of the “Empowering Conversa- and support gender equality.
tions”, i.e. the dialogues of six female managers on the im-
The value of disability
Enel is committed to ensuring the full inclusion of every
person, in line with the approach indicated by the relevant
UN Convention and with the Enel Valuability© model, ac-
cording to which inclusion generates innovation and in-
creases the possibility of attracting and valuing people by
innovating processes and products.
Globally, there are 2,129 colleagues with disabilities, more
than 70% of whom are in Italy.
Enel provides tools, services, working methods and initia-
tives to create an inclusive working and relational context
for all, which allows work activities to be carried out in full
autonomy, regardless of any disability. In particular, there
is a focal point for Enel people with disabilities in all coun-
tries and 2022 saw the launch of new global initiatives, in-
cluding:
•
activation of Inclusive Travel services to ensure accom-
modation and travel experience for colleagues with dis-
abilities;
•
launch of the Inclusive Internship project with the acti-
vation of internships in Italy;
•
participation in the Generation Valuable(9) project pro- agreement was signed with national trade unions, regulat-
moted by the Valuable500 network with the aim of ing the new remote working arrangements, canceling and
spreading the culture of inclusion and empowerment of replacing previous agreements and becoming fully opera-
people with disabilities through mentoring meetings be- tional from October 2022. The new agreement introduces
tween talented colleagues and managers; a highly innovative system with extensive flexibility mea-
•
design of an awareness-raising initiative to spread sures, providing for the alternation of on-site working days
knowledge of the application principles of Design for for so-called “high-synergy” activities with remote work-
All to business processes and contexts to train an in- ing days for which a ceiling of 60% of monthly days is set
clusive mindset throughout the corporate population aside for remote activities. There is also the possibility of
and the global dissemination of guidelines to ensure the requesting additional days for special situations (disabled,
adoption of accessibility principles for the realization of caregivers, parents of small children, etc.), i.e. a maximum
e-learning content. of 40% for activities that can be partially remote, as well
Since 2020, most of the disability initiatives have been as organizational measures to guarantee and protect the
merged into the Value for Disability project, which is de- well-being of workers and an easier work-life balance, the
scribed in detail in the chapter “Managing human rights”. right to switch off, the provision of mobile connectivity for
all remote workers, and the recognition of meal vouchers
for remote working days. Consistent with the principles
Remote working and well-being
outlined in the Italian agreement on the new work model,
trade union and/or individual agreements were also signed
In 2022, more than 36,000 people worked in hybrid in the other main countries in which the Group is present
modes, alternating between remote working and in-per- to make hybrid work a global reality.
son activities. A transformation of the way we work already
started in 2016 and has now extended on a global scale To date there are many flexibility measures active in differ-
thanks to the Group’s impressive technological evolution. ent countries, as shown in the following table:
In March 2022 in Italy, the New Way of Working (NWOW)
EUROPE
AND EURO
NORTH LATIN AFRICA, ASIA, MEDITERRANEAN
ITALY SPAIN ROMANIA AMERICA AMERICA(1) OCEANIA AFFAIRS
Part time
Smart
working
Telework
Seasonal
schedule
Time bank
Flexible
time
Short week
(1) Argentina (smart working); Brazil (smart working, time bank, flexible time); Chile (smart working, flexible time); Colombia (smart working, time bank, flexible
time, short week); Peru (smart working, flexible time, seasonal schedule, short week); Costa Rica, Panama, Guatemala (smart working, flexible time, short week,
telework).
(9) https://www.thevaluable500.com/update/generation-valuable.
The global well-being
which Enel operates, but also capable of capturing
framework cross-cultural differences. Through the involvement of
an international, heterogeneous and multicultural team,
the results enabled the definition of the most important
In 2021, together with our people (in co-creation mode), a actions to be taken.
global well-being framework was defined, based on eight Survey 2022 saw an expanded survey on the topic of
pillars that affect overall satisfaction with the centrality of motivation declined on four factors: purpose, mastery,
people in mind, specifically considering the needs that relationship, and autonomy.
have emerged: At the end of 2022, Enel also included the public target
•
psychological well-being, more broadly “feeling linked to the general well-being index for the years 2023-
comfortable in one’s own skin”, involving the 2025 among the targets of the Sustainability Plan. This
management of perceived stress and individual skills of index measures the percentage of respondents fairly or
stress coping; very satisfied with their overall well-being (both personal
•
work-life harmony, balance between working and and work life) and stands at 60% in the past year.
family life, involving the management of working time With the purpose of increasing people’s well-being,
and disconnection, taking due account of the person’s the Global Wellness Program was launched, targeted
family commitments (children, caring for elderly and/or at all Enel people and designed with an experience that
disabled relatives); combines physical and digital (specific “Me-Wellbeing”
•
physical well-being, intended as inspiration to take care section on the Company’s “ME” portal). The program
of one’s own physical health; content will be expanded continuously to keep people
•
social well-being, intended as a sense of connection engaged. The first release covered psychological well-
and belonging to the communities in which the person being and relational and emotional intelligence, allowing
participates socially; people to use the following tools on a voluntary basis:
•
economic well-being, intended as a sense of anonymous self-assessment tests on their emotional,
satisfaction with the family’s economic situation; physical and social state; tools to plan meetings with
•
sense of protection, intended as a sense of security colleagues aimed at improving relational well-being; a
perceived by the person with respect to the occurrence well-being advisor who allows people to exchange tips on
of unpleasant events; behaviors that impact well-being; webinars on focusing
•
ethical well-being, intended as satisfaction with the skills, stress management and the importance of social
value, meaning and purpose of the person’s life; relationships. To stimulate adoption of the program and
•
cultural well-being, intended as “feeling encouraged to a culture inspired by self-awareness of one’s own level
grow and learn new things”. of well-being, a reward scheme has been associated
for those who use the program tools on a regular basis,
During 2021, the first global well-being survey was enabling them to have more time for themselves (well-
conducted with the aim of measuring the level of being days) or, alternatively, pathways aimed at further
corporate well-being, defining the most important increasing their level of well-being.
initiatives for people, and consolidating its global model, In order to spread the culture of well-being and offer
using a metric common to the different countries in support to colleagues with a view to work-life harmony,
2022 also saw the birth of the global bimonthly Well-
being newsletter and the introduction of a new guidance
resource: the Well-being Ambassador. Training of the first
Italian ambassadors was completed and was commenced
for the other countries.
In general, at Enel well-being is expressed in its various
meanings with initiatives that also aim to increase
awareness of the importance of a correct diet, through
workshops and nutritional consultations, without
neglecting the area of physical well-being understood
as motor activity. In Italy, for example, yoga and pilates
classes held on-site have been replaced and flanked
by online courses and customized subscriptions with
Gympass, available in several countries.
Caring for all
3-3 401-2
Caring for families
We promote the value of care in all situations, including
contingencies, in which a person may find themselves
during their working life, and we have defined benefits and In most countries active services and support are provided,
services that support work-life integration. A few examples including financially, for childcare and focused on moth-
of initiatives in the different countries where the Group erhood, such as breast-feeding rooms at our major sites.
maintains a presence are provided below. In Italy, the “Master Care” plan dedicated to caregivers in
the Company is active, and there is an online family coun-
seling service at subsidized costs, “New Parents New En-
Caring for people
ergy” parenting training sessions, and the MAAM-CHILD
Platform that stimulates active reflection on the life par-
“MaCro@Work Caring Program”. The MaCro@Work Car- enting experience in order to capitalize on it in the work
ing Program is a global initiative launched in Italy and context. There were also workshops for employees’ chil-
aimed at Enel people suffering from a chronic disease. The dren on coding and STEM subjects. Family services such
first step was the training and creation of the network of as financial support (school book bonus, contributions for
Heart Managers, People & Business Partners who voluntari- kindergarten, school and university, scholarships and con-
ly volunteered to support “vulnerable” colleagues by pro- ventions with schools) and “time-saving” services are also
viding active listening and help in seeking the most appro- available, such as babysitting, care for the elderly and home
priate solution to create an inclusive environment for the support. Since 2022, a care manager service has also been
colleague and the entire work context of reference. During active in Italy, which consists of a specialized operator who
2022, the project was extended to Spain, Argentina, Bra- accompanies the employee caregiver in dealing with a sit-
zil, Mexico and Central America, and Romania, and in early uation of need, offering support in the choice of assistance
2023 it will be made operational with the creation of about and care services best suited to his/her requirements. Nu-
50 more Heart Managers globally. The project received the merous initiatives have been introduced, in collaboration
DNA – Difference iN Addition Award in Italy, which recog- with the mobility manager network, to encourage sustain-
nizes concrete good practices of inclusion in corporate able travel, including bike sharing, by Enel people, includ-
contexts. ing specific agreements for public transport subscriptions.
HeLP Me: a solidarity project that has made it possible to Finally, all mothers and fathers of children attending prima-
create the first corporate network in Italy based on volun- ry school are granted entry permits for their children’s first
teering that connects colleagues in a situation of need, day of school.
momentary or permanent, with those willing to offer their Also available is the MyWelfare platform, where it is pos-
time and lend a hand. sible to convert the performance bonus into specific wel-
On the subject of psychological well-being, support ser- fare goods and services by taking advantage of a tax and
vices were reinforced during the Covid-19 pandemic and economic benefits with a 15% premium offered entire-
thereafter. In particular, assistance is provided in Brazil, It- ly by Enel. In 2022, to support households in coping with
aly, Spain, Peru, Romania, the USA and Canada, Colombia, increasing economic hardship, utility costs could also be
Costa Rica, Guatemala, Panama, India, South Africa and reimbursed through MyWelfare.
Argentina, covering more than 95% of Enel’s people. Spain has a dedicated channel on the Company intranet,
There are also several initiatives implemented on the topic offering a wide variety of products and services at com-
of vulnerability. petitive prices, offers for leisure, training, but also the op-
In Greece, in November 2022, Enel Green Power won the portunity to make donations for the improvement of the
Gold Award on the “Break the Stigma” dimension for its living conditions of those most in need. An app can also be
initiatives to promote an open and inclusive culture of psy- downloaded to access various services such as private car
chological well-being free of prejudice and stereotypes. sharing, car cleaning and repairs, a dietician and a travel
Supporting took the form of workshops, specific training agency. Plus, at the Madrid site, a “To-Do room” is available,
such as mindfulness, and ad hoc sessions to promote a offering services to save time that are open all day long
holistic approach to well-being. (for example, laundry, dyeing, computer repairs, etc.), to
improve work-life balance.
In Colombia, an à la carte platform is available that offers
numerous types of benefits that can be redeemed in real
time according to work-life balance needs, interests or
current moment in life. During 2022, the organization’s compulsory leave. The average number of days of fully
benefit model saw the “My emotional care” section for paid maternity leave in total for countries that account for
psychological and physical well-being growth. over 80% of the global total workforce (Italy, Brazil, Spain,
In Greece, we won the Bronz Award in 2022 for the Par- Argentina and Romania) is 26.8 weeks, with the minimum
ents’ school program, which aims to improve the work-life offered in Spain (17 weeks).
balance of parents with measures including psychological Also with regard to paternity leave, in some countries
support and specialized training. Enel intervenes with additional measures both in terms of
the number of additional days of leave (Argentina, Spain,
Mexico, Colombia, Guatemala, Costa Rica, Panama, United
Caring in the organization
Kingdom, Ireland, Chile, Peru, New Zealand, India, Australia,
Greece) and in terms of wages (in Mexico and Greece, Enel
In 2021, an analysis was carried out to harmonize the min- covers any pay gaps guaranteeing 100% pay, and in all oth-
imum duration of maternity leave within the Group. From er Group countries, remuneration is already 100% guaran-
2022, Japan, Taiwan, Germany and Panama will therefore teed according to legislative requirements). In particular, in
add to the leave required by law to reach a minimum thresh- Italy since 2021, the law requires 10 days of paternity leave
old of 80 working days, as is already the case under Euro- to be paid at 100% of wages, even in the event of adoption.
pean legislation, as required by European regulations.(10) As The average number of days of fully paid paternity leave
in 2021 in terms of maternity leave, a similar analysis will be in countries that account for over 80% of the global total
carried out in 2023 regarding paternity leave. workforce (Italy, Brazil, Spain, Argentina and Romania) is 3.7
In line with the care approach and to support the parental weeks, with the minimum offered in Brazil (1 week).
experience, Enel offers measures in addition to the provi- In terms of parental leave, the measures on offer vary
sions of local legislation in terms of additional days of leave greatly from one country to another. Italy provides parental
as well as pay, with potential benefits in the areas of work- leave of 10 months, shared between the mother and fa-
life balance and caring for families. ther, in a child’s first 12 years. If the father takes at least 3
With regard to maternity leave, in more than half of the months, the total leave rises to 11 months. The collective
Group’s major countries (Argentina, Spain, Mexico, Colom- agreement pays a salary of 45% for the first month and
bia, Guatemala, Costa Rica, New Zealand, Australia, Brazil, 40% for the second and third months, compared to the
Germany, Japan, Panama and Taiwan), Enel guarantees an 30% required by law for the first 6 months.
increase in the number of days of leave compared to what In 2021 in Italy, parental leave was extended to same-sex
is provided by local legislation. Specifically, for Japan, Tai- couples in civil partnerships who care for children, and in
wan, Germany and Panama, Enel has supplemented the Peru health insurance coverage was extended to same-sex
statutory leave duration to reach the minimum threshold couples living together for a minimum of two years.
of 80 working days, as required under European regula- In Italy, it is also possible to take leave for very serious family
tions. In addition, in Peru Enel offers one year of remote circumstances, and to offer holidays or rest periods from
work in addition to that provided for under local legisla- a solidarity point of view (solidarity holidays) to colleagues
tion, while Argentina, Australia, Brazil and Colombia offer in the same company, to help children or adolescents, par-
a substantial number of additional days. In terms of salary, ents, spouses, civil partners or common-law spouses who
where the total remuneration is not guaranteed by local need constant care or in the event of very serious family
laws, Enel intervenes by bridging the gap to reach 100% or personal circumstances. As well as holidays donated by
coverage. In particular, this occurs in Italy, Romania, North colleagues, Enel provides the same number of days of paid
America, Panama, Guatemala, South Korea, and Greece, leave. In Spain, it is also possible to take advantage of daily
while in all other Group countries, remuneration is already flexibility adapted to the temporary needs of the worker, in
100% guaranteed according to legal requirements. the form of a temporary change in working arrangements,
Specifically, in Italy Enel guarantees 100% coverage com- reductions in working hours and leave for family care.
pared to the 80% required by law for the five months of
(10) See Council Directive 2010/18/EU of March 8, 2010: https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/IT/TXT/?qid=1414661428912&uri=CELEX:32010L0018.
Supplementary healthcare assistance and pension
3-3 401-2
The majority of countries where the Group maintains a take advantage of symposia with the Italian National Coun-
presence offer supplementary health insurance policies at cil of Psychologists (CNOP) and Italian Psychoanalytic Soci-
advantageous conditions with respect to the alternatives ety (SPI) for psychological support services.
available on the market. In many cases, the Company pro- In line with the FISDE solidarity principle, former Enel em-
vides benefits related to prevention and periodical check- ployees can also continue to benefit from the services of-
ups (see the chapter “Occupational health and safety”). fered by the Provision by continuing to pay the member-
For all Italian employees and their dependent family mem- ship fees.
bers, in agreement with the trade unions, Enel set up the Staff support measures also include the option of access-
Supplementary Healthcare Provision for Enel Group Em- ing fixed-contribution and other pension plans, such as
ployees (FISDE) in 1997. The Provision disburses repayments membership of mandatory or optional schemes and the
and redemptions for healthcare expenses, promotes ini- award of various types of individual benefits in services as-
tiatives for the disabled and individuals subject to socially sociated with post-employment benefits provision.
challenging situations (drug addiction, alcoholism, learning As at December 31, 2022, 81% of employees were cov-
difficulties, psychosocial disorders) and sets up preventive ered by the Enel Group pension plan. The largest pension
medicine programs. Also in 2022, members were able to funds are in Italy (Fopen and Fondenel), Spain and Brazil.
The level of coverage of non-salary benefits(11)
3-3 401-2
The analysis concerned the entire Group workforce, show- The main support initiatives and the extent of their cover-
ing a high percentage in terms of access to the main ben- age of the Enel workforce are set out below.
efits.
Non-salary benefits 100% Enel countries 2022 2021 2022 vs 2021
Covid-19 insurance 99% 100% -1%
Life insurance 89% 88% 1%
Medical insurance 94% 93% 1%
Pension Fund Membership 81% 81% -
Additional parental measures (maternity, paternity and parental leave) 94% 94% -
Meal allowances 89% 86% 3%
Child support initiatives 84% 84% -
Loans 90% 90% -
Leisure and cultural initiatives 87% 91% -4%
(11) Non-salary benefits are the series of goods and services provided by the Company in addition to monetary pay.
Industrial relations
2-30 3-3 402-1
Enel complies with the labor law in force in the various understanding and awareness not only of their duties, but
countries in which it operates, with the fundamental prin- also and above all of their rights (enshrined in the afore-
ciples of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Hu- mentioned collective agreements). As well as serving as
man Rights and with the conventions of the Internation- the basis of the regularity of contracts, this approach en-
al Labor Organization (ILO) concerning workers’ rights ables us to operate fairly at all levels of the Company and in
(freedom of association and collective bargaining, consul- all the Countries and Regions which Enel is present.
tation, right to strike, etc.), systematically promoting dis- In Enel there are no limits to freedom of association. As
cussion between employer and worker organizations and indicated by the GFA and the Policy on Human Rights, Enel
seeking a broad level of agreement and sharing of corpo- recognizes the right of its employees to form or take part
rate strategies by employees. in labor organizations aimed at protecting their interests.
Industrial relations activities on the Group level continue to In particular, employees may be represented, in the vari-
be conducted in accordance with the model laid down in ous generation units, by trade union organizations and
the Global Framework Agreement (GFA) signed by Enel in other forms of representation elected in compliance with
Rome in 2013 with the Italian Federations in the sector, and the legislation and practices in force in the countries con-
the global unions IndustriALL and Public Services Interna- cerned. Enel complies with the principle of trade union
tional, and which is still recognized as a benchmark best independence and does not interfere in any way with the
practice for European and non-European multinationals. organization of representation, allowing workers’ repre-
The agreement is based on international human rights and sentatives access to the workplaces in order to commu-
business principles and is inspired by the best and most nicate with their members, in compliance with the law and
advanced transnational industrial relation systems of the the industrial relations systems in force in each country.
reference multinational groups and institutions on the in- Enel therefore recognizes as interlocutors the trade unions
ternational level, including the ILO. One of the particularly that represent workers in the Company, in compliance
significant principles of the GFA is one on remuneration, with the provisions of national legislation, and adheres to
whereby the minimum payment made to Group employees strict neutrality regarding the choice of workers whether
cannot be lower than the level established by the collective or not to join a trade union organization and/or the choice
bargaining agreements and legislative and regulatory texts of the union by which to be represented. In the event of
in the various countries in question, in line with the provi- a discrepancy between local and international standards,
sions of the ILO conventions. the Group strives to apply the provisions that best protect
On the subject of remuneration, in accordance with the workers’ rights. Finally, Enel provides adequate information
relevant ILO Convention Enel is committed to respecting to its employees and to the trade union organizations that
the principle of decent work in all countries where it oper- represent them, in order to facilitate collective bargaining,
ates. In addition, it continues its commitment to bridging and provides its people with a full range of information,
the gender gap, promoting initiatives to reduce it, where including via the Company intranet, concerning collective
it exists, and thus to ensure equal pay for equal work as labor agreements and trade union agreements, in accor-
well as transparency. The principle of equal pay is also dance with current legislation.
indicated by the Group’s Policy on Human Rights, which As also illustrated in the Policy on Human Rights, collective
stipulates that all those who work along the entire value bargaining agreements are acknowledged as the main
chain are entitled to remuneration in line with the principle tool to determine the contractual conditions of its employ-
of fair compensation for work, of equal pay between male ees and to regulate relations between senior management
and female labor for work of equal value, and of minimum and trade unions. In 2022, the percentage of employees
wages not less than those established by collective agree- covered by collective bargaining agreements was about
ments and current legislative and regulatory treatments of 91% (90% in 2021).
reference in force in different countries, as established by At European level, the Agreement on the Enel European
ILO conventions. In addition, it is also expressly provided in Works Council of 2016, extended in 2022, is confirmed as
the Code of Ethics that upon the establishment of the em- one of the most advanced agreements in the EU electricity
ployment relationship, each employee will receive accurate sector for its focus on bilateral issues such as occupational
information relating to characteristics of the role and du- health and safety, training and diversity.
ties to be performed, and to regulatory and remuneration Enel and the domestic and European federations (Indus-
elements according to the principles set out above. This triAll Europe and the European Public Services Union) have
information is presented to the employee in such a way transferred their consolidated experience of social dia-
that acceptance of their position is based on an effective logue to the Sectoral Social Dialogue Committee of the
electricity sector, established at the EU Commission – DG First with the Italian trade unions and then with those of
Employment – regarding the employment impacts of the other countries where the Group is present, Enel has also
energy transition and digitalization in the coming years in signed an agreement, the Charter of the Person, to pro-
all European and global electricity companies. tect individuals in their work, personal and social spheres.
In the various countries in which it maintains a presence, The document not only outlines new guidelines in industri-
Enel is committed to managing the transition by entering al relations, but more generally reaffirms the centrality of
into robust dialogue with the trade unions, translating in people, starting with their well-being and motivation, guar-
practice the principles of the just transition for everyone, anteeing quality training in terms of self-learning and high
including local communities and contractors, the people safety standards, rooted in the responsible approach of all
most directly involved in the process of change (see also (see the dedicated box at the beginning of this chapter).
the chapter “Our commitment to a just transition: leaving
no one behind”). In the event of organizational changes, timely disclosure
to trade union representatives is required, as indicated in
the table below.
Country Minimum Period Legal Provisions/Collective Agreements
Argentina In view of the general provisions of the law and, in analogy, There are no legal requirements or provisions in
a minimum period of 48 hours will be taken into account for collective agreements
the purpose of notifying any amendment of the essential
conditions of the employment contract
Brazil It is convention and practice to provide “timely” information There are no legal requirements or provisions in
collective agreements
Chile Neither the law nor collective bargaining provide for a minimum notice period in the event of organizational changes
Colombia Neither the law nor collective bargaining provide for a minimum notice period in the event of organizational changes
Italy 25 days. The Company informs the trade unions with a Legal provisions (Art. 47, Law no. 428/90 and Art. 9
specific document of its intention to transfer a part of the of the collective bargaining agreement, referring
Company. In addition, our Industrial Relations system (Art. to Law no. 428/90)
9) provides for the prior involvement of trade unions on the
main organizational changes in order to share the objectives
and manage their implementation
Peru Neither the law nor collective bargaining provide for a minimum notice period in the event of organizational changes
Romania Obligation to inform and consult workers’ representatives on Legal provisions and collective agreements
the Company’s development and to inform them periodically
about the Company’s economic situation. Disclosure to and
consultation with employee representatives regarding the
recent and likely development of the Company’s business
and economic situation. Information and consultation
of workers’ representatives on decisions that may entail
significant changes in work organization, contractual
relations or labor relations, including but not limited to
transfers within the Company, acquisitions, mergers,
collective redundancies, closure of production units, etc.
Spain and Portugal 30 days Provided for in the Collective Agreement and the
Framework Guarantee Agreement of Endesa SA
and its subsidiaries in Spain
Sustainable supply chain
Material topics (I level) Plan SDG
• Sustainable supply chain
Double
materiality
People
•Suppliers
Below the 2022 results related to the targets of the previous 2022-2024 Sustainability Plan, the resulting progress and the tar-
gets of the 2023-2025 Sustainability Plan, which may be redefi ned, added to, or surpassed with respect to the previous Plan.
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
Qualifi ed suppliers assessed for 99% 100%
8 S
health and safety aspects for
12 all product groups(1) (% qualifi ed
suppliers)
Qualifi ed suppliers assessed for 99% 100%
12 E
environmental aspects for all product
13 groups(1) (% qualifi ed suppliers) S
Qualifi ed suppliers assessed for 99% 100% 12 S
human right or business ethics
16 aspects for all product groups(1) (% G
qualifi ed suppliers)
Value of coverage of tenders with 96% >90% in 2025
12 S
“sustainability Ks” (% of tenders with
“sustainability Ks”/ total tenders)
Supplies’ value covered by Carbon 62% 75% in 2025
12 E
Footprint (CFP) cert ifi cation
13 S
Supplies’ value covered by CFP 100%
12 E
cert ifi cation or CFP estimation from
Target outdated as 100%
13 international databases(2) S
coverage was achieved
Value of tenders coverage 37% 50% in 2025
12 E
with mandatory sustainability
requirements(3) S
Supplies’ tenders value covered by 68% N.A. >70% in 2025
12 E
ranking/target based on carbon
13 footprint values S
(1) The percentage is calculated considering the total number of suppliers with valid qualifi cation at the end of the year and does not include large players and
subsidiaries of related industry groups. Rounded values.
(2) CFP estimation from international database based on LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) methodology.
(3) In addition to the basic contractual clauses regarding health and safety, environment and human rights.
Goals Progress
I Industrial E Environmental S Social
G Governance T Technological New Redefi ned Outdated Not in line In line Achieved
eht
fo
tnemeganam
elbisnopseR
skrow
dna
secivres
,sdoog
fo
tnemerucorp
N.A. = not applicable
Sustainable
supply chain
Suppliers
2-6 3-3 204-1 308-1 407-1 408-1 409-1 414-1
The transformation of the energy system, and continuous recycling and to support our
alongside the digital revolution, entails partners’ resilience and repurposing.
changing and evolving the way works are All of this underpinned by loyalty, transparency
performed and how goods and services are and collaboration. We ask in addition to
supplied. It also means suppliers are essential guaranteeing the necessary quality standard.
partners to achieve sustainable progress The latter include working conditions, health
across our operating footprint. and safety, adequate hours worked, rejection
Suppliers are our partners in the journey to of forced or child labor, respect for personal
sustainable growth. We work with them to dignity, nondiscrimination and inclusion of
maximize the economic, productive, social diversity, freedom of association and collective
and environmental benefits of the transition. bargaining, and respect for privacy by design
We strive to create sustainable, innovative, and by default.
and circular processes that also enable us to All of the above, within a clear code of conduct
better quantify, and thus mitigate, the total framework that includes, to name a few, our
impacts they generate, aware of the need to Human Rights Policy, Code of Ethics, Zero
minimize pressure on critical materials and Tolerance of Corruption Plan and our
components through technological innovation global compliance programs.
99 96
% %
SUPPLIERS QUALIFIED ON HEALTH AND RATIO OF TENDERS INCLUDING
SAFETY ASPECTS, ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY “KS”
AND HUMAN RIGHTS
83% in 2021 +13%
99% in 2021
9,427
TOTAL QUALIFIED SUPPLIERS WITH A CONTRACT
STILL ACTIVE AT THE END OF 2022
6,717 in 2021 +40.3%
Purchases and tenders for goods and services Supplies, works and
services contracts (mil euros)
Supplies Works Services
9,788
7,820
6,744
6,509
5,480
4,965
4,492
3,625 3,776
2020 2021 2022 2020 2021 2022 2020 2021 2022
Top 10 Enel sourcing locations
no. of suppliers
335 5,980
5,980
3,668 3,665
1,277
1,018
774
594 570
379
335
Italy Romania Spain Brazil Chile USA Colombia Greece Peru Argentina
The graph shows the countries where suppliers with active contracts are located.
•
In 2022, the total for works, services and supply amounts as part of our tendering process, we set increasingly
to over 22 billion euros, of which more than a third is in challenging CO reduction targets on core supply cate-
2
Italy, followed by Romania and Spain. gories,(1) which also take into account the contributions
of innovation. These targets are shared with our suppli-
Together with our suppliers, we work to define new met- ers and are in line with a 1.5 °C path);
•
rics and promote co-innovation projects in the perspec- for strategic product groups, suppliers are required to
tive of a decarbonization and circular economy pathway, provide information on the amount of each raw materi-
with positive impacts on both power generation process- al. This information allows us to reward suppliers based
es and purchasing methods (for example, the collabora- on their capability to make use of recycled materials
tion with the startup Alesea, see the chapter “Innovation”). as inputs in their production processes, thus stimulat-
Specifically: ing a circular culture and reducing pressure on transi-
•
promote a circular procurement approach through the tion-critical materials;
•
adoption of many initiatives and mechanisms, including we work together with suppliers to define criteria, tech-
the obligation for suppliers belonging to core catego- nical requirements and solutions to further strengthen
ries(1) to provide and to issue an Environmental Product circularity and sustainability in the early stages of the
Declaration (EPD), aiming at quantifying, certifying and value chain. The purpose of this approach is to maxi-
communicating the environmental impacts generated mize the overall value of the product: on the one hand,
along the entire life cycle suppliers‘ processes. Certified by making use of recycled material along the supply
data allow us to measure emissions along the entire sup- chain and, on the other, by reducing the “Global Warm-
ply chain, promoting in this way the Group's decarbon- ing Potential” and thus CO emissions.
2
ization pathway;
(1) Core categories are those that are strategic for the business including wind turbines, smart meters, photovoltaics, transformers, street lighting, smart home
solutions and storage systems.
Supplier management
and assessment processes
3-3
In addition to ensuring the necessary quality standards, sustainability standards. Therefore, partner selection and
supplier performance must go hand in hand with a com- contract execution are subject to analysis and monitoring
mitment to adopt best practices according to the highest activities throughout the entire procurement process:
Supplier qualification Tender and contracting Monitoring
system process systems
Differentiated Inclusion of requirements Evaluation of performance
pathways based on the and ”sustainability Ks“ to be based also on health
combination of risk level monitored throughout the and safety, environment
identified and Countries contract period and human rights indicators
qualified for
Sustainability assessment
on health and safety,
environment and human
rights
Supplier qualification system • environment: with a scale of 1 to 3 (1=worst; 3=best, re-
spectively), environmental criteria are evaluated, which
Each potential supplier, taking into account their business, are different depending on the relevant PG and its asso-
can undertake a qualification pathway for one or more ciated level of risk.
product groups (PG) and select the countries in which to
supply goods and services. Suppliers are only acknowl- With regard to health, safety and environmental aspects,
edged as suitable if they meet all the specific requirements for the highest risk PGs, an on-site audit at supplier’s
for each PG selected. premises/sites is always required.
All product groups are analyzed at a global level and with Before proceeding with qualification, two further assess-
the support of the different areas involved in the field, to ments are carried out, regardless the related product
set the requirements in question. In particular, the analysis group level of risk. Specifically:
involves:
• •
mapping of the activities included in each PG; a reputational assessment of the potential supplier
•
choice of the qualification pathway depending on sup- through national and international data providers. In ad-
plier type (there are ad hoc processes for start-ups, sec- dition to compliance with the relevant laws and regula-
tor leaders and industrial groups); tions, suppliers are required to adhere to the principles
•
allocation of a risk level for each key issue (health and to which we have committed ourselves with our Policy
safety, environment, reputation, etc.); on Human Rights, Code of Ethics, Zero Tolerance of
•
categorization into PGs based on the risk detected. Corruption Plan and global compliance programs, with
specific reference to the absence of conflict of inter-
With specific reference to sustainability aspects, the est (including potential) and, depending on the specif-
questionnaires require information on: ic risk classes, the submission of specific certifications/
•
health and safety, via the “Safety Self-Assessment” and self-declarations;
•
its straightforward indication to our suppliers of the fun- a human rights assessment, particularly with regard to
damental requirements on which to work and grow to- labor practices (such as rejection of forced or child labor,
gether; respect for diversity and non-discrimination, freedom of
association and collective bargaining, fair and favorable Compliance with the requirements must be assured for
working conditions, including hours worked and ade- the entire duration of the qualification and, as such, those
quate wages, protection of workers’ privacy, and supply already included in the Enel Register of Qualified Suppliers
chain verification) and relations with communities (local, are constantly monitored, partly by reference to external
indigenous and tribal peoples) and society, through the databases, for events that may affect their company and
administration of a dedicated questionnaire. its main representatives.
If the outcome of these analyses and assessments is pos- As of December 31, 2022, 99% of all qualified suppliers
itive, individual suppliers can qualify and be added to the were assessed according to social, environmental and
Supplier Register (or remain on it if previously qualified) safety criteria. The total number of qualified suppliers
and then be invited to participate in the Group’s procure- with a contract still active at the end of 2022 was about
ment procedures. If the outcome is negative, the supplier 9,400 (about 46% of active suppliers as of December 31),
will not be able to participate in the Group’s tenders but while the total number of active qualified companies was
may submit a new request for qualification at a later date. about 31,400.
The following table shows the trend in the qualified suppli-
ers’ percentage for the three aspects analyzed by process.
% of qualified suppliers according to social, environmental
and safety aspects at December 31
Human rights Safety Environment
99 99 99 99 99 99
93 93 93
2020 2021 2022 2020 2021 2022 2020 2021 2022
Tender and contracting processes Terms and Conditions);
•
adopt suitable conduct to avoid the emergence of con-
Consistent with our commitment to introduce sustain- flicts of interest throughout the entire term of the con-
ability aspects into the tendering processes, we adopted tract and undertake to notify us promptly in writing if any
a structured process governed by a specific procedure to such circumstances arise (Art. 29.2 of the General Terms
define “sustainability Ks”, which can be used in the tender- and Conditions).
ing stage by the various purchasing and monitoring units We reserve the right to carry out any control and moni-
throughout the entire life of the contract. toring activity to check compliance with the obligations
The process includes two “Libraries”, in which all “sus- set out above by both the supplier and any of its subcon-
tainability requirements and Ks” are catalogued, grouped tractors, and to terminate the contract immediately if any
into the macro-categories of certification, environmental breach is ascertained.
and circularity aspects, such as waste management and
carbon footprint assessments according to UNI EN ISO
14067:2018, and social aspects, such as training and em- Monitoring systems
ployment of people from local communities and actions to
respect gender diversity. The goal is to take any corrective actions if the suppliers on
These are periodically updated within a cross-functional the Register do not fulfill any requirement anymore during
working group dedicated to sustainability and circularity the execution of the contract.
issues, taking into account market maturity and new cor-
porate strategies. In particular, the following monitoring strands are provided
for all suppliers on the Register, regardless of whether they
We include specific clauses in all contracts for works, ser- have an active contract or not:
•
vices and supplies, which are updated periodically to take reputational monitoring: based on the monitoring of
account of the various regulatory changes and align our- open sources and carried out continuously (24/7). The
selves with international best practices. objective is to identify potential reputational risks arising
The general terms and conditions refer to the current reg- from a counterparty’s involvement in criminal proceed-
ulations on remuneration, contributions, insurance and ings, with a particular focus on environmental crimes
tax, with reference to all workers employed for any reason and human rights violations in business practice. This
in the execution of the contract by the supplier. In addition, monitoring also collects reports made through the whis-
the principles set forth in the ILO Conventions and legal tleblowing channel, which is made available to all stake-
obligations regarding child and women’s labor, equal treat- holders and can be accessed locally in different languag-
ment, prohibition of discrimination, abuse and harass- es;
•
ment, freedom of trade unions, association and represen- document monitoring: this action aims to verify legal
tation, rejection of forced labor, safety and environmental documents (e.g. criminal records) and their validity. The
protection, and sanitary conditions are explicitly recalled. documents monitored take into account the legal spec-
In the event of conflict between the latter and the ILO Con- ificities of each individual country in which we are pres-
ventions, the more restrictive standards will prevail. The ent;
•
clauses also require suppliers to undertake to prevent all Contractor Safety Assessment: additional verification
forms of corruption (Art. 29.1.3 and Art. 29.1.4 of the Gen- carried out both during the qualification phase and
eral Terms and Conditions). during the execution of the contract for PGs with a
In addition to the legal provisions, the contractual condi- medium/high level of health, safety and environmental
tions require that our suppliers: risk. The objective is to identify HSE improvement areas
•
recognize the “ten principles” of the United Nations that are conducive to obtaining and retaining the qual-
Global Compact and declare that they manage their ification. A total of 1,120 assessments were conducted
business activities and operations in order to meet during 2022.
these fundamental responsibilities in the fields of human For suppliers on the Register who have an active contract,
rights, labor, the environment and the fight against cor- the following monitoring strands are provided in addition
ruption (Art. 28 of the General Terms and Conditions); to the systems already described:
•
acknowledge the commitments we have made in the
•
principles listed in the documents below and refer to health, safety and environmental monitoring of field
them in the execution of the contract: The Policy on Hu- performance (during contract performance): the per-
man Rights, which also includes a principle relating to formance of our suppliers is assessed and monitored
respect for biodiversity; the Code of Ethics; Zero Toler- through field inspections that identify existing non-con-
ance of Corruption Plan; and the global models for the formities and potential hazards with respect to contrac-
prevention of criminal risks (Art. 29.1.1 of the General tual commitments, technical standards and authoriza-
tion and legislative requirements. The primary objective Supplier Performance Management
of the inspections is to prevent accidents, injuries, ill-
nesses and events that may affect the environment. Among the monitoring systems that are carried out during
During field inspections, specific checklists are used to contract execution is the Supplier Performance Manage-
facilitate the homogeneous aggregation of non-confor- ment (SPM). The goal, with a view to collaboration with our
mity data for subsequent corrective action. This data is suppliers, is not only to take any corrective actions during
not only analyzed by the contract manager to take cor- the execution of the contract, but also to encourage a
rective action, but also feeds into the Supplier Perfor- pathway of improvement made possible by actions that
mance Management (SPM) process to allow analysis and reward best practices.
prevention and correction initiatives on a larger scale
(see the section “Supplier Performance Management”); The process is based on the objective and systematic dis-
•
Supplier Performance Management (SPM): monitoring closure of data and information on the execution of the
based on objective and systematic collection of data contracted work. This data is used to develop specific in-
and information related to the performance of the tech- dicators, also called categories (Quality, Punctuality, Health
nical service under the contract (see the section “Suppli- and Safety, Environment, Human Rights & Fairness, In-
er Performance Management”). novation & Collaboration), which are combined to form a
weighted average and produce the Supplier Performance
The evaluation of the data coming from the different mon- Index (SPI). The categories and SPI can be used as assess-
itoring strands is the responsibility of specific committees, ment elements for participation in tenders and for mainte-
composed of representatives from both the procurement nance of the contractual relationship.
area and the Business Lines. Specifically:
•
the Qualification Commission, present in all major Monitoring activities related to the Supplier Performance
countries, is in charge of accepting/rejecting qualifica- Management are conducted by the various Business Lines
tion requests, assessing possible suspensions and ex- with the support of the relevant health, safety and envi-
amining proposals for changes to the technical qualifi- ronment units, where applicable, and the Supplier Qualifi-
cation requirements and to the PG tree put forward by cation and Performance Management unit. In addition, all
the Business Lines. In 2022, the total number of times Enel people who interact with suppliers have the opportu-
these committees met was 346; nity to express their own assessment using the dedicated
•
the Integrity Committee, composed of representatives Track & Rate app.
from Global Procurement, the Legal Function, the Secu-
rity Function, and the Technical Functions of the Busi- In the event of poor performance, we take specific actions
ness Lines, meets whenever a critical issue emerges that that can be reflected in:
•
may have negative repercussions on the honorability of qualification (e.g. updating the duration of qualification,
the supplier under consideration, to analyze it and to as- increasing or decreasing the overall economic potential,
sess the application of specific actions or penalties with meaning bands of tender amounts within which suppli-
regard to supplier companies. During 2022, this com- ers can enter, suspension of qualification, etc.);
•
mittee met 39 times; the contract (for example, further investigations, im-
•
the Evaluation Group is convened by the Health Safety provement action plan, termination, reduction or in-
Environment and Quality Function of the Holding Com- crease in volumes, etc.). In the event that issues are
pany and is responsible for analyzing the data coming found with the conduct of a supplier, an action plan may
from HSE monitoring and for evaluating possible conse- be drawn up jointly, the execution of which is subjected
quence management measures. In addition to represen- to our constant monitoring.
tatives of the competent HSEQ Functions of the Busi-
ness Lines, representatives of the Global Procurement,
the Legal Function, and the Technical Functions of the
Business Lines are also on this committee. During 2022,
this committee met 40 times.
The SPM process monitored 701 PGs and 7,666 suppliers
last year (compared to 698 PGs and around 6,782 suppli-
ers in 2021).
Suppliers
9,922
Tier 1 suppliers
60%
of Tier 1 suppliers are
deemed relevant (“critical suppliers”) in
relation to their strategic importance
related to the Company’s business unique
purchase volumes, and other factors that
could have economic,
social and environmental impacts
5,950
Tier 1 suppliers assessed during
2022 (includes assessments made during
qualification, tendering and contract
award phases)
27%
assessed Tier 1
suppliers that have been assigned
improvement actions
100%
of assessed suppliers
presented improvement action plans
and improved their ESG performance
as a consequence
Training and information
the international reference standards for a sustainable con-
duct. Still on the subject of protection and awareness-rais-
Over the past few years, we have organized several the- ing, many initiatives were undertaken to involve suppliers in
matic events concerning decarbonization, adopting circu- health and safety aspects.
lar business models, respecting human rights and supply In addition, articles are published periodically on the Enel
chain mapping (collection of information aimed at creating Global Procurement website that highlight the commit-
a global map of the supply network), with the aim of sharing ment made by the Group to these topics (https://globalpro-
best practices and multistakeholder approaches in line with curement.enel.com).
Creation of sustainable value: Supplier instruments that can facilitate access to liquidity, to man-
Development Program agerial and technical training programs that promote the
conversion of the business towards the energy transition,
We have launched several initiatives to increase the resil- from consulting services on sustainability, circular econ-
ience of the supply chain and to make Supplier Centricity omy, strategy, M&A and internationalization, to access to
more and more concrete and tangible. catalogs of means of transport and working machines,
One example is the Supplier Development Program, initially all the way to services to obtain certifications. Particular
launched in Italy (where it is currently open to more than attention is paid to initiatives to support the conversion
6,000 suppliers) and being extended to other countries and diversification of businesses, such as the “Companies
of presence, to support the growth path of companies Counter”, consisting of periodic meetings with individual
in the supply chain and, at the same time, contribute to traditional generation companies to support them in their
the achievement of the Group’s strategic objectives. The processes of growth and redevelopment towards expan-
Program is aimed at companies, based or with branches in sion in areas such as renewables or new services related to
Italy, that are qualified or at an advanced stage of qualifi- energy efficiency.
cation in our Supplier Register and have a production value The development that Enel intends to promote takes the
up to 250 million euros. We pay particular attention to small form of:
•
and medium enterprises operating in strategic sectors increased awareness about sustainability and digitaliza-
that will benefit from our direct support to provide access tion matters;
•
to certain services. differentiation of the business and consequent reduc-
By entering into agreements with the main players, we tion in supplier dependence on Enel;
•
guarantee more favorable conditions than the market aver- increased financial strength;
•
age and we contribute with partial coverage of the services internationalization, which helps grow our business out-
offered as part of the program. These range from financial side of Italy and Europe.
At the end of 2021, the program "Energie per Crescere” During 2022, some 2,100 new technicians were trained
(Energies to Grow) was launched, with the aim of training and recruited from grids suppliers.
about 8,200 new technicians, including 5,500 by 2023, A new phase of program development is planned for
belonging to grids suppliers, creating highly requested 2023, with the involvement of the Enel X contractor
professional profiles in the sector (for example, cable network aimed at strengthening profiles in energy
pullers, cable splicers, substation assemblers, live-line efficiency and photovoltaics.
workers); the remaining 2,700 technicians will be trained
and hired by 2025 and the training will be devoted to Enel
Green Power suppliers so as to integrate professional
profiles in the renewable sector (for example, electrical
specialist, junior site manager, civil-mechanical specialist).
Energie per Crescere sees the collaboration of several
actors: ELIS, a non-profit organization that provides
vocational training, the major employment agencies in
Italy, Accredia-certified training institutes at which the
candidates, once selected, attend the planned 200 hour
courses and, finally, Enel’s contracting companies that
hire the participants throughout the country at the end of
the training course.
ENERGIE PER LA SCUOLA: a bridge between
companies and training for the energy transition
With Energie per la Scuola we involve students,
schools, training organizations and our supplier
companies on a path of growth, through a qualified
Giuseppe Macrì
and certified pathway gives many young people the
Quality and Sustainability
opportunity to make the big leap into the workplace
Referent – Supplier Development
and Operational Excellence and that will contribute, in a broader way, to
Procurement Italy. Head of Energy accelerating the energy transition.
for Schools, Enel
At the beginning of 2022, the Energie per la Scu- The training includes a basic course lasting 120 hours and
ola program was launched programme for final a further specialized course lasting 40 hours and geared
year students attending technical and vocational towards the profiles ‘most wanted’ in the e-distribuzione
schools, with the aim of training them for the 'most want- sector. Training is provided by certified training institutions
ed’ roles in the electricity sector so that, after graduation, in partnership with schools.
they can be hired by Enel’s suppliers. The training course The first edition of the program (school year 2020/2021)
covers the profiles most in demand in the electrical sec- involved 11 schools, 8 suppliers of e-distribution and a to-
tor. The aim is to create a bridge between education and tal of some 100 students who were all hired by Enel’s sup-
the professional sphere, encouraging the students to ac- pliers at the end of the training. The second edition, aimed
quire the skills needed to embrace the new professions of at 2022/2023 school year students, is currently underway
the energy transition, and facilitating their access into the and it involves over 60 schools and some 500 students.
workplace with the Group’s suppliers immediately after Theory and practice will go hand in hand with an innova-
graduation, also through greater knowledge of the indus- tive and engaging teaching approach that will allow the
trial realities in the industry. students to consolidate the knowledge acquired in the
The initiative entails the signing of agreements between classroom with experience in the field, through a series of
companies and schools, based on the PCTO (Percorsi per highly specialized courses, a real springboard towards new
le Competenze Trasversali e l’Orientamento - Pathways for professional opportunities.
Transversal Skills and Orientation) model defined in the
Guidelines drawn up by the Ministry of Education, Univer-
sity and Research.
Fuel procurement
2-6 3-3 301-1
Suppliers of solid and liquid fuel are selected through the requirements for occupational safety, environment and
“Know Your Customer” process that, for each counterpart, human rights have been satisfied.
evaluates the reputational and economic-financial aspects
and their satisfaction of the appropriate technical and Purchase contracts entered into with each supplier are
commercial requirements. Checks also ensure that suppli- subject to the Group principles embedded in the Human
ers are not on specific United Nations, European Union and Rights Policy, the Code of Ethics and the Zero Tolerance
OFAC “Black Lists”. of Corruption Plan, with which suppliers must be aligned
These lists identify individuals or organizations associated with. We reserve the right to terminate contracts in case of
with terrorist associations, organizations under EU finan- severe breach of those principles.
cial sanctions, and so-called Specially Designated Nation-
als (SDNs) who are subject to US sanctions on terrorism or Lastly, to mitigate the risks arising from the maritime shipment
drug trafficking charges, among others. of fuel, we have adopted a tool to vet and select the carriers
used. Vetting is a recognized industry standard for oil trans-
To assess the sustainability aspects of coal sources, an in- portation. Enel, together with an increasing number of opera-
ternal process has been established to ensure that Group tors, is also applying this methodology for dry bulk transports.
UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Perimeter
Resources used in the production process
Fuel consumption for thermoelectric production
from non-renewable sources
from non-renewable sources
Coal (,000 t) 8,522 5,958 5,893 2,564 43.0 Enel
Lignite (,000 t) - - 105 - - Enel
Fuel oil (,000 t) 889 863 975 26 3.0 Enel
Natural gas (Mm3) 13,214 15,682 13,075 -2,468 -15.7 Enel
Gas oil (,000 t) 1,262 1,033 906 229 22.2 Enel
from renewable resources
Biomass and waste for thermoelectric production (,000 t) 65 71 89 -6 -8.5 Enel
Biogas (Mm3) 1.2 0.7 0.1 0.5 71.4 Enel
Geothermal steam used for electricity production (,000 t) 49,947 350,160 350,090 -300,213 -85.7 Enel
Bettercoal
3-3
Together with major European electric utilities, we are ac- carried out by independent third parties, to verify that the
tively engaged in Bettercoal – a global initiative to promote Code’s principles have been applied, and agreeing an on-
the continuous improvement of corporate responsibility going improvement plan to overcome any shortfalls. In ad-
in the international coal industry. Bettercoal has released a dition to Bettercoal’s growing presence in several forums
code of conduct based on existing and agreed standards in the area of coal and supply chain sustainability, the ini-
of social responsibility in the mining sector. The Code tiative has become an example of collaboration together
provides detailed guidelines to mining companies in the with different stakeholders, aimed at improving socially re-
definition of their social, environment and ethical policies. sponsible practices within the supply chain. During 2022,
The Bettercoal Code establishes members' expectations as members of Bettercoal within the working group dedi-
regarding suppliers' practices related to four main cate- cated to Colombia, we participated in the delegation that
gories: management systems; commitment to ethics and travelled to Colombia, for the first time since 2018, with
transparency; human and labor rights; and environmental the aim of further improving our understanding of the crit-
performance, while promoting ongoing improvement. In ical issues surrounding coal mining in the country, allowing
2021, a new version of the Code was finalized to align it us to foster better stakeholder relations with all involved
with the latest best practices in sustainability, thereby con- in this complex environment, including companies, the
tributing to achievement of the applicable Sustainable De- government, international NGOs and local communities.
velopment Goals. In addition, the new version of the Bet- During the visit, several meetings were organized with over
tercoal Code ensures the integration of the mine closure 60 stakeholders, including business associations, commu-
and rehabilitation processes, embedding environmental, nities and local governments.
social, economic and governance aspects into operations In addition, a new working group specifically dedicated to
from the earliest stages of mine development. South Africa was established in 2022 due to changing in-
Mining companies adhering, signing a letter of commit- ternational scenarios. For further information, please refer
ment, start a virtuous path by accepting on-site checks, to the website www.bettercoal.org.
Engaging communities
Material topics (I level) Plan SDG
• Engaging the local and
global communities
Double
materiality
People
• Local and global
communities
Below the 2022 results related to the targets of the previous 2022-2024 Sustainability Plan, the resulting progress and the tar-
gets of the 2023-2025 Sustainability Plan, which may be redefi ned, added to, or surpassed with respect to the previous Plan.
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
Inclusive and equitable quality 3.7 mil benefi ciaries (2015-2022) 5.0 mil benefi ciaries in 2030(1)
4 S
education
17 G
Aff ordable, reliable, sustainable and 15.6 mil benefi ciaries 20.0 mil benefi ciaries in 2030(1)
7 S
modern energy (2015-2022)
17 G
Sustained, inclusive and sustainable 4.9 mil benefi ciaries (2015-2022) 8.0 mil benefi ciaries in 2030(1)
8 S
economic growth
17 G
Strengthening and promoting 1,215 part nerships launched Strengthening and promoting
17 S
operational part nerships operational part nerships
G
Development of new projects to 2,325 projects
1 2 S
benefi t the communities where Enel
The target is considered
3 5 operates for the creation of shared G
outdated in order to adopt an
value (CSV)
10 17 approach related to impact
assessment, on which we are
focusing
Dissemination of the CSV model in 1,527 total CSV
9 S
operating assets applications(2)
I
The target is considered
outdated in order to adopt an
approach related to impact
assessment, on which we are
focusing
(1) Cumulative fi gures since 2015.
(2) For more details on CSV applications, please refer to the note in the chapter “Engaging communities”.
Goals Progress
I Industrial E Environmental S Social
G Governance T Technological New Redefi ned Outdated Not in line In line Achieved
N.A. = not applicable
seitinummoc
lacol
rof
rt
oppuS
Engaging
communities
2-24 2-29 3-3 411-1 413-1
Establishing solid and lasting community relations in the This approach has led us to innovate the way we run our
local areas where we operate is a fundamental pillar of business (introducing, for example, sustainable site and
our strategy, based on a model of business development facility management models; see section “Renewable
and management in continuous interaction with the energies“ in the chapter “Clean electrification“) as well as
communities themselves in order to create long-term the processes of developing energy products and services
and constant shared value, in full respect of human rights in an inclusive direction. An approach that also counts on
and without leaving anyone behind. the activation of virtuous ecosystems, such as the Open
As part of the transition process towards a decarbonized Innovability® platform, based on openness and sharing,
economy as a driver of growth and modernization for as an indispensable element to facilitate and promote the
communities, we promote economic development, identification of innovative social ideas and solutions (for
welfare, quality of life and equality. further information see the chapter “Innovation”).
2,325
SUSTAINABILITY
PROJECTS
Managing community relations and other These projects range from infrastructure
2,410 projects
stakeholders is an enabling factor for all development to education and vocational
in 2021
sustainability activities, which rely on specific training programs, projects to support
-3.5% operational levers: cultural and economic activities, promotion
•
Sustainability by design: in order to of access to energy, rural and suburban
integrate a long-term sustainability electrification, and promotion of social
6.3
Over mil
approach into the business, it is necessary, inclusion for the most vulnerable groups
BENEFICIARIES as far as possible, to anticipate and address of the population (physically, socially and
Over 7.5 mil all sustainability issues at the design stage economically).
beneficiaries of Company activities; Among the initiatives to support socio-
in 2021 • Ad hoc interventions: activities that occur economic development are:
•
-16% after the start of the business project, in the promotion of inclusive business
response to events or needs that arise models, such as the development of
during the construction of the assets, e-commerce platforms to foster access
1,527
the performance of daily activities, the to credit and the development of the local
operation of plants or the interaction with economy, to support the less privileged
APPLICATIONS
OF THE stakeholders; segments of the population;
• •
CSV MODEL(1) Crisis management: sustainability combating energy poverty through
1,478 applications interventions may need to be implemented energy awareness initiatives;
•
in 2021 in relation to sudden and unforeseen digitalization to support connectivity in
occurrences and serious damage such rural areas and computer literacy;
+3.3%
•
as critical events relating to Group assets, projects aimed at fostering the
projects or products and resulting from participation of women in STEM subjects,
1,215 natural disasters or social/community for the development of local economies.
unrest. These situations will be handled
PARTNERSHIP
with dedicated and targeted initiatives. In realizing our commitment to
581 in 2021
communities, we are not alone: we have
+109.1% In 2022 our contribution to the social and more than 1,200 active partnerships
economic development and growth of the internationally with non-profit organizations,
territories resulted in more than 2,300 social enterprises, start-ups and institutions
sustainability projects in the various countries rooted in the local areas with valuable local
where we are present, involving more than expertise, because we believe in the value of
6.3 million beneficiaries,(2) in line with the a multi-stakeholder approach.
sustainable development goals (SDGs).
(1) An application is interpreted as the use of at least one CSV instrument in relation to an asset, in any phase of the chain of
value and in any Business Line. The CSV applications in the BD phase include applications regarding BD opportunities (also
at the beginning phases) and business projects output from the pipeline. They can also relate to assets in O&M in the case
of modernizing projects or decommissioning activities. The CSV applications in the E&C phase can refer to assets passed
to the O&M phase at the end of the year. The number of CSV applications in Infrastructure & Networks (I&N) may refer to
the concession area, but also areas identified by municipalities and substations. The value includes companies consolidated
using the equity method and companies for which the Build, Sell and Operate (BSO) mechanism has been applied.
(2) Beneficiaries are the people in whose favor the project was carried out. Enel considers only the beneficiaries for the cur-
rent year. The number of beneficiaries considers the activities and projects carried out in all the areas in which the Group
operates. Solely within the NFS perimeter (excluding companies consolidated using the equity method, foundations, Group
non-profit organizations and companies to which the Build, Sell and Operate, or BSO mechanism has been applied), the
number of beneficiaries in 2022 is 0.6 million for SDG 4, 2.3 million for SDG 7 and 1.2 million for SDG 8.
Our model for creating shared value
with communities
•
:Establishing strong and lasting community relations, involve independent third parties in negotiation pro-
including local communities and indigenous and tribal cesses because of their expertise in the area and as a
peoples, requires a broad, inclusive and continuous “bona fide witness”, if applicable;
•
dialogue based on well-defined stages of stakeholder facilitate and support engaging local communities in
engagement, in line with relevant international standards project monitoring through local training, sharing trans-
(such as the UN Guiding Principles on Business and parent information on project phases and the method-
Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational ology for defining target areas;
•
Enterprises), aiming therefore to: provide an access channel, characterized according to
1. incorporate responsible Company conduct into policies the context, for any reports from people who need to
and management systems; contact us, based on tools and means available at the
2. prevent or mitigate impacts; site, such as local teams or specific people, toll-free
3. monitor the implementation of improvement plans and numbers, the internet, or, in the case of isolated rural
results; communities, even local leaders willing to collect all pos-
4. communicate how impacts are managed. sible complaints periodically.
Indeed, when conducted as early as possible in the plan- The functioning of the model is governed by organiza-
ning phase, stakeholder engagement enables us to iden- tional documents that define roles and responsibilities in
tify the requirements of the populations within our sphere the various stages of its implementation. Examples are the
of influence and generate the most comprehensive pos- Policy “CSV Process definition and management” and the
sible mapping of the potential consequences our activity Operational Instruction “Project Portfolio Management
may have on them. The process aims to: System”, including the management of the digitalized plat-
•
identify stakeholders within the sphere of influence of form dedicated to project reporting.
our business; The definition and dissemination of guidelines for imple-
•
verify that the stakeholders identified ensure represen- menting the sustainability model, the assessment of the
tation of all groups affected by the development of our sustainability projects, the management of the projects
activities in our sphere of influence; on a Group level and the dissemination of best practic-
•
analyze the type of relationship that can be created be- es in the countries we operate in are guaranteed by the
tween us and the mapped stakeholders in order to avoid Holding’s Innovability® organizational structure and by the
potential conflicts of interest; relative sustainability structures in the various countries
•
provide common guidelines for those responsible for of operation and Business Lines. Each country and each
managing stakeholder consultation processes to achieve Business Line adapts the procedures for the global policy
and implement a robust engagement procedure, seek- and the procedures for application of the model on a local
ing to prevent any potential situation that might under- level, based on the specific aspects of business and the
mine stakeholder expectations; context.
•
develop an understanding of our sphere of influence by
conducting context analyses containing a wide range of In response to the growing challenges posed by the new
socio-economic and environmental data; social and economic context and the increasingly central
•
guarantee that consultation satisfies specific condi- role assumed by sustainability in every phase of business,
tions of quality, such as being free, preventive, inclusive, we are reviewing our models to ensure their scalability and
adapted to the local context, bidirectional and well doc- increase their impact. We are also accelerating the adop-
umented, in line with international reference standards; tion of an approach focused on assessing the impacts of
•
share all the information about the project that is rele- our sustainability projects by setting increasingly specific
vant for the concerned stakeholders in order to promote targets.
transparent and collaborative relationships.
The value created for the communities
The contribution to sustainable
development goals
•
The sustainability of our strategy is also confirmed by the ensuring access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and
progress achieved in terms of the Group’s contribution to modern energy (SDG 7) which has affected 15.6 million
achieving the United Nations sustainable development goals people to date;(4)
•
(SDG), with particular reference to projects targeted at: promoting sustained, lasting, inclusive and sustainable
•
ensure inclusive and equitable quality education (SDG 4), economic growth (SDG 8) with 4.9 million beneficia-
which has benefited 3.7 million people;(3) ries.(5)
Activities Target Results Status SDG
2015-2030 2015-2022
Quality 5 million 3.7 mil
education beneficiaries(1)
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
IN LINE
0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.3 1.0 0.7 0.7
mil mil mil mil mil mil mil mil
Affordable 20 million 15.6 mil
and clean beneficiaries(1)
energy 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
IN LINE
1.5 1.3 1.3 2.2 1.6 1.9 3.5 2.3
mil mil mil mil mil mil mil mil
Decent 8 million 4.9 mil
work and beneficiaries(1)
economic 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
growth IN LINE
0.4 0.7 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.9 0.7 1.2
mil mil mil mil mil mil mil mil
(1) Beneficiaries are the people in whose favor the project was carried out. Enel considers only the direct beneficiaries for the current year. The number of
beneficiaries considers the activities and projects carried out in all the areas in which the Group operates.
(3) Cumulative data from 2015-2022 on the total number of beneficiaries of SDG 4 to date.
(4) Cumulative data from 2015-2022 on the total number of beneficiaries of SDG 7 to date.
(5) Cumulative data from 2015-2022 on the total number of beneficiaries of SDG 8 to date.
Measure the value of our commitment
for communities
3-3 203-1
•
We make a substantive contribution to the development investments in the community: medium/long-term in-
and social and economic growth of the territories and volvement in community support projects, also in part-
communities where we operate with varying types of in- nership with local organizations, aimed at addressing
tervention, ranging from the expansion of infrastructure to significant problems both for the territory as well as
education and training programs, from initiatives targeting for the Company. This category includes, for example,
social inclusion initiatives to projects supporting local cul- projects related to a wider strategy to the benefit of the
tural life. community, such as “Access to electricity”, or specific
To measure our action, we adopted the LBG (London initiatives dedicated to the communities near the power
Benchmarking Group) method, which makes it possible to plants (please refer to the chapters “Clean electrifica-
clearly determine and classify the Company’s contribution tion” and “Managing human rights”);
•
toward the development of the communities where it is commercial initiatives with a social impact: contributes
present and compare it with other companies. to activities connected to the core business, in which the
In particular, according to the LBG standard, the expense Company promotes its own brand and its own corporate
for the contributions to the communities can be divided identity. Examples of these initiatives are the marketing
as follows: campaigns that also provide benefits for the community,
•
donations: pro bono contributions and without obliga- or that include contributions for charitable purposes.
tions for the beneficiaries, except that they have to use
the donation for charitable purposes and for non-profit In 2022, Enel’s total contribution to the communities in
associations. For Enel, this item includes all the mone- which it operates was about 120 million euro(6) (+31.6%
tary and “in kind” charitable donations, including those compared to 2021), registering in particular an increase in
for philanthropic and solidarity activities; investments in communities compared to last year.
2022 initiatives in favor of communities by purpose (%)
Donations 12.1%
Community investments 64.4%
Commercial initiatives with a social impact 23.5%
2022 initiatives in favor of communities by type (%)
Cash contribution 86.2%
Employee volunteerism 0.6%
Donations in kind (goods/services/projects) 6.2%
Management overheads 7.0%
(6) The largest increase over last year was in community investments (up by more than €21 million), particularly in Brazil, Chile and Colombia. Expenditure on
donations increased slightly compared to 2021 (increase of about €5 million), particularly in Brazil and Chile, as did commercial initiatives (increase of €3
million), particularly in Italy and Iberia due to the prolonged effect of the post-pandemic reco very.
Sustainability projects
and initiatives
In the communities in which we operate, we implement cultural and economic activities, energy access, rural and
projects that, in line with the Sustainable Development suburban electrification, the fight against energy poverty,
Goals, contribute to the development and social and eco- and social inclusion for the most vulnerable population
nomic growth of local communities by promoting infra- groups. .
structure development, education and vocational training,
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
Energy to grow – PERU
The main objective of the project, activated in 2021, is We have managed to reach 20,000 electrified lots by 2022,
to accelerate the electrification of new human set- which will improve the quality of life for 80,000 people.
tlements located in the most disadvantaged areas within
our concession area in Peru.
It is a collaborative project in which we try to work together
with municipalities, the population and non-governmental
organizations (NGOs). With this project we help families
in the communities to improve their living conditions, in
terms of health and education, and we also give them the
opportunity to open new businesses, thus contributing to
their economic development.
Energy security in critical areas – CHILE
The project, born in 2018 from an agreement signed
between Enel Distribución Chile and Fundación Techo
Chile, aims to promote sustainable and secure access to
energy for families in the municipality of Lampa, in fields
located in the concession area.
During 2022, 1,900 new suburban connections were built
in the municipalities of Lampa, Pudahuel, Colina and Mai-
pú.
In alliance with Fundación Techo and Litro de Luz, solar lights
and a WiFi point were installed in the “El Esfuerzo 2” field in
the municipality of Cerrillos, as well as offering workshops and
training on unconventional renewable energies, entrepreneu-
rship workshops and digital literacy, thus creating a space to
promote social development in the camp.
Finally, Enel Grids organized educational events related to
energy efficiency, electrical risk prevention and climate chan-
ge, as well as initiatives to improve local employability, such as
the development of sustainable lighting in collaboration with
the Litro de Luz Foundation.
Leadership network in Florencio Varela – ARGENTINA
During 2022, we set up a community leadership net-
work in the San Jorge – Villa Argentina neighborhood
in the municipality of Florencio Varela in Buenos Aires, in
order to strengthen the relationship with neighborhood
leaders and formal and informal organizations represent-
ing community interests. In this area, the public’s concerns
regarding the public electricity service and other issues
impacting the community environment are addressed..
Through this network we accompany the energy service
normalization process for 675 new customers, raising
awareness, advising and resolving specific claims. During
the process, together with neighborhood leaders, we
identified specific needs such as:
•
computer equipment: 15 PCs were donated to the
Centre for Labor Training (CFL);
•
workshops on sustainable energy use: 2 face-to-face
workshops of a theoretical-practical nature were
held to raise awareness of responsible and efficient
consumption;
•
installation of photovoltaic lights with LED technology
self-made by residents of the neighborhood;
•
energy transition workshop for students, with
theoretical and practical content on technologies
associated with the energy transition.
SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC GROWTH
Hortas em Rede (Orti in rete – BRASILE)
The Hortas em Rede project, developed by Enel São
Paulo, uses the tracks underneath the distributor’s
transmission lines to create vegetable gardens in periph-
eral areas with a high population concentration in the cap-
ital’s metropolitan region, demonstrating how a sustain-
able infrastructure can be integrated into the territory by
responding to the needs of communities.
The project comprises three vegetable gardens in the São
Mateus neighborhood and offers the communities in the
surrounding area opportunities for employment, voca-
tional training and income generation through the sale of
produce grown by the farmers. The most significant inno-
vation of the project is the shift from a value destruction
scenario to a shared value creation scenario. Another in-
novative aspect relates to social inclusion: women and the
elderly are in fact the main beneficiaries of the production
and marketing of the garden products.
The project also contributes to the enhancement of the
landscape and to creating the conditions for the residents
of these areas to become actors and protagonists of a real
social transformation. Between 2021 and 2022, 80 farm-
ers and 1,332 people indirectly benefited from Hortas em
Rede, generating over about 150,000 euros(1) in income.
(1) Value determined using the exchange rate as at December 31.
Ruta Pehuenche: a program for the development
of small local business people – CHILE
In Chile, where the Los Cóndores hydroelectric plant in supply, food, housing, energy and the resolution of sanita-
the Maule region is under construction, encounters with tion issues.
the local community have generated training and employ- To date, four years after the project’s inception, more than
ment opportunities, with the emergence of a women-led 80 people (including 70 women) have participated in voca-
micro-entrepreneurial fabric. tional workshops held in the Chilean localities of La Mina,
The local development program Ruta Pehuenche was cre- Paso Nevado, Armerillo and Las Garzas, for a total of 130
ated here, and its name was taken from the international hours of training. This initiative has led to the creation of
corridor that extends to Argentina and is full of exceptional small commercial businesses − linked to the tourism flow
natural attractions. in the area − that produce items made of wood and jew-
The project was created with the dual goals of promoting elry made with stones and ceramic. In addition to improv-
the economic growth of the entire community through ing the ability of families to generate income, the project
training courses and improving living conditions through represents a channel for promoting and strengthening the
the use of environmentally friendly technologies for water role of women in the local social fabric
Energy Collection (Costurando Sonhos) – BRAZIL
The aim of the project, established in 2017, is to provide
financial autonomy to women in Paraisópolis, São Pau-
lo’s second largest community.
The initiative started as a training course, a way to help
women in situations of extreme social vulnerability, of-
ten victims of domestic violence. Through the program,
women who previously had no income are now finding
their economic independence, thanks to the skills ac-
quired through training courses in cutting and sewing,
which have taught them a trade from which they can earn
their own income..
The project extends not only to São Paulo, where it origina-
ted, but also to the state of Ceará and Rio de Janeiro, and
has enabled a number of women to receive training from
the Enel Shares Entrepreneurship program during its five
years of operation. The income generated from the sale
of the garments is entirely donated to the women in the
production groups to which they belong.
In 2021 and 2022, a total of 342 people benefited from the
project, generating an income of almost 16,000 euros.(1)
(1) Value determined using the exchange rate as at December 31.
EDUCATION
Educating with Energy Enel CEO – CHILE
The project, which started in 2022, is based on a train- ships for students from the Lampa and Recoleta districts.
ing course comprising, on the one hand, theoretical The objective of this training is to qualify people as much
modules at a professional technical institute and at a train- as possible to strengthen the electricity sector, considering
ing platform on electrical risk prevention, and on the other customer safety as a priority focus in a participative and in-
hand, a practical phase at the training sites of the Opera- clusive strategy.
tional Excellence Centre (CEO). This phase is carried out by
the Enel Grids contractors’ operational teams, which en-
sures that the field work carried out by the students meets
the highest quality and safety standards, and is conducted
by technical area representatives in cooperation with the
contractors, who carry out daily maintenance functions
on the networks in the concession area in the metropoli-
tan region. The project was realized through an alliance and
public-private partnership between the vocational techni-
cal institutes, Chile DUAL, SOFOFA (which contributed as
a sponsor) and 10 contracting companies, which in a co-
ordinated manner provided venues for vocational intern-
Lethbridge College Wind Engineering Partnership – USA
In Alberta, where we operate four wind farms, we have The involvement of these young people will include: safe-
been pursuing since 2020 a multi-year partnership with ty training in the college’s wind turbine shop; a climbing
Lethbridge College to support the Wind Turbine Techni- experience in a wind turbine nacelle; a visit to the top of a
cian Training (WTT) program and empower the students wind turbine using virtual reality (VR) technology; the con-
of the Piikani Nation. struction of miniature wind turbines, tested in the college’s
The partnership creates opportunities for STEM education wind tunnel; and the development of a virtual reality tour
and workforce development for indigenous and other stu- of the college’s nacelle, through the donation of two VR
dents living in the areas around several of the Group’s wind visors.
plants in the southern part of the province. .
The project includes “experiential learning days” for Piikani
Nation students and the opportunity to visit Lethbridge
College and get more information about both the WTT
program and other university programs and services. We
are also funding awards under the WTT program to sup-
port Piikani Nation students, indigenous and non-indige-
nous, who graduate.
“È viva la scuola lab“, Helpcode – ITALY
The project, now in its second year in 2022-2023 and New in this edition is the “Energies for the Future” work-
realized in partnership with Helpcode, aims to support shop path, which was realized using products powered by
schools in their educational activities, through an integra- renewable sources and recycled materials, and providing
tive training proposal and the enhancement of curricular specific training reserved for a local association to ensure
teaching, also with the objective of increasing students’ the continuation of the project independently thanks to
awareness of the Group’s main commitments, such as en- the skills acquired.
ergy transition, digitalization and human rights.
In 2022, the project involved about 150 children.
The project is structured by developing three modular mac-
ro-activities: 120 workshops for classes, specific training for
teachers and 10 “Energy for the Future” activities. Workshop
activities were, where possible, conducted in the presence
of Helpcode educators with the contribution of our vol-
unteers. The paths aim to guarantee the children’s right to
global citizenship education and sustainable development
through exploration, interaction and play, including the use
of digital platforms and educational software.
The workshops that remain active for this new release are:
•
CODE AND CHANGE YOUR WORLD!, dedicated to
coding and digital literacy;
•
THE ALGORITHM OF RIGHTS, dedicated to rights and
active participation.
SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC GROWTH
Bet on water in La Guajira – COLOMBIA
In 2022, Enel Colombia built the Amalipa micro aque- Finally, four tanks were built and handed over to the mu-
duct, which provides 600,000 liters of drinking water nicipality of Maicao; these were developed together with
per month to more than 2,450 Wayuu indigenous people the ACDI/VOCA Foundation for Latin America, the Minis-
from 22 communities in Maicao and Uribia. try of Housing and the Colombian National Army. Almost
This work is in addition to the Wimpeshi micro-water 560 people from the communities of Chuluita, San Luis,
pipeline, inaugurated in February 2021, which consists Sabana Larga and Corralito benefited. These four jagüeyes
of two reservoirs and 13 tanks that provide 2,000 liters are in addition to the 10 we have delivered since 2020.
of water per week to rural communities scattered across
middle and upper Guajira. The project currently benefits
almost 3,000 indigenous Wayuu people.
As of 2022, we have been awarded the role of partner for
the construction of a new micro water pipeline in the Jai-
paichon and Urraichipa territories in the municipality of
Maicao, which will provide drinking water to more than
4,000 people in 39 Wayuu communities.
In addition, we commissioned the drinking water treat-
ment system in the community of Media Luna Jawuaou in
Uribia, benefiting 2,318 people.
Sustainability Wonders –
The second contest, focused on SDG 15 and dedicated
Enhancement and awareness to the conservation of biodiversity, featured Brazil’s
initiatives on food and water security, agricultural
for sustainable energy
production, sustainable fishing and mining that contribute
to the fight against global warming. The project has
Sustainability Wonders is the platform of the Global restored more than 610 hectares with the planting of local
Business Line Enel Green Power and Thermal Generation flora. A total of more than 1,200 animal species – 26 of
that, since 2021, collects, enhances and shares the best which are threatened and 80 endemic – were recorded in
sustainability challenges. the areas covered by the various projects.
During 2022, the program saw the launch of three Finally, the last contest launched in 2022 focused on SDG
contests dedicated to three different issues, in which all 3, and gathered initiatives aimed at the psychophysical
Enel people, in all countries, participated by submitting well-being of the individual. In this latter contest, the
their sustainability project on each theme. winning project, which originated in Italy but has become
The first of the three contests was dedicated to SDG 8 global, is “Enel CReW, Cycling Running & Walking”, which
and supporting local entrepreneurship through initiatives encourages virtuous mobility behavior and is currently
that generate a positive and sustainable economic impact active in 18 countries, with 145 clubs and almost 3,000
on the communities in which we operate. The winning participating colleagues who have so far covered a total
project, which is Italian, provides vocational training of more than 2 million kilometers, avoiding the emission
courses on energy transition for the staff of companies of more than 350 million tons of CO into the atmosphere.
2
in the Civitavecchia area, where the Torrevaldaliga Nord
power plant is located.
Margherita Moscatelli
Head of Engagement and Performance
EGP&TGx Sustainability
“The Sustainability Wonders program was born from
the desire to select the best sustainability projects
implemented in the vicinity of our generation plants,
in order to highlight and champion them, through an
innovative and participatory process that involves and
engages colleagues from all Countries”
Innovation
Material topics (I level) Plan SDG
• Innovation, circular
economy and digital
transformation
Double
materiality
Growth accelerators
•Innovation
Below the 2022 results related to the targets of the previous 2022-2024 Sustainability Plan, the resulting progress and the tar-
gets of the 2023-2025 Sustainability Plan, which may be redefi ned, added to, or surpassed with respect to the previous Plan.
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
•
Furt her enhance the reach of our 194 Proof of Concept launched Launch of 445 Proof of Concept
9 I
innovation ecosystem, to fi nd the to test innovative solutions in the
17 best solutions on a global scale period 2023-2025 S
•
Generate value by solving the
G
ever-increasing needs of the
Business Lines, by enabling open T
innovation tools (collaboration
with start ups, crowdsourcing,
part ners, universities, intelligence,
technological communities,
solution design activities)
60 solutions adopted in the Scale-up of 126 solutions to
I
business accelerate the implementation
of the Strategic Plan in the S
period 2023-2025 G
T
Read more
Proof of Concept are small-scale
tests of a potential innovative
solution, useful for assessing its
feasibility and large-scale imple-
mentation.
Goals Progress
I Industrial E Environmental S Social
G Governance T Technological New Redefi ned Outdated Not in line In line Achieved
metsysoce
ytilibaniatsus
dna
noitavonnI
N.A. = not applicable
Innovation
60
SCALE-UP OF
SOLUTIONS Innovation
ADOPTED IN THE
BUSINESS
46 solutions DMA EU (former EU8)
in 2021
In a world in which companies continue We support innovation to be certain that the
+30.4%
to change workflows and are becoming best and most creative ideas help improve
increasingly digital, we are concentrating the lives of people. By just rethinking the
on new technologies and are continuing way in which we innovate we can truly
194 to work toward giving life to sustainable revolutionize the industry and develop
progress. technologies and solutions that can shake
PROOF OF In order to encourage new uses of power up old markets and create other completely
CONCEPT
and new ways of managing it and making new ones.
168 in 2021 it accessible to increasing numbers of Since 2021, the culture of innovation was
+15.5% people in a sustainable way, we have made combined with an “agile” approach, with
innovation a key component of our strategy. the objective of providing the business
It is a pathway that involves traditional with 360° support, from the initial idea of a
businesses and the development of new project to its adoption phase, through the
10 models and technologies, which leverage use of creativity, lateral thinking and agile
on cutting-edge innovation, passion and techniques.
INNOVATION ideas that emerge not only from within, but Innovation and agile transformation have
HUBS
also from outside the Company. in fact a great potential for synergy as they
10 in 2021 Enel’s Open Power model considers are essential factors behind the creation
innovation as one of the four values that of a competitive advantage and for the
inspire our day-to-day actions, together optimization of costs over time.
with trust, responsibility and proactiveness.
43
COLLABORATIONS
FOR INNOVATION Enel’s Open Innovability® for changing
41 collaborations
the future of energy
in 2021
+4.9%
The new model (Open Innovation + Nations 2030 Agenda.
sustainability) is based on the crowdsourcing Since 2017 we have launched the
119 activities of the best talents, ideas openinnovability.com platform, with more
and technologies to make them grow, than 13,000 evaluated opportunities, more
COLLABORATIONS
transforming them into new business than 210 challenges, 34 of which only in 2022.
ACTIVATED WITH
models. In this way, we are connecting all Over the past year, the challenges for which
STARTUPS
Company areas with startups, industrial the most solutions were proposed concern:
100 collaborations
partners, small and medium-sized enterprises innovative ways for improving the albedo
in 2021
(SME), research centers, universities and in solar generation plants, sustainable
+19.0%
entrepreneurs, through the openinnovability. approaches for reusing cement, a new design
com platform, to face new challenges, for primary and secondary substations.
in consideration of the drivers of the Those who propose solutions for solving the
Group’s Strategic Plan and the sustainable challenges can win monetary awards and start
development goals (SDG) of the United collaborations with the Group.
We can count on a global network of Innovation Hubs and innovative technologies for improving the generation and
Labs (10 Hubs, three of which are also Labs, and three Labs storage of renewables (BASF), the promotion of space appli-
dedicated to startups) that collaborated with the local eco- cations in the energy sector (ESA and Thales Alenia Space)
systems to expand our vision, promoting open innovation and the codevelopment of innovative digital solutions (Cisco
and sustainability. and Microsoft).
The Hubs, which are located in the most relevant innovation We have created specific interfunctional work groups (In-
ecosystems for the Group (Catania, Pisa, Milan, Silicon Val- novation Communities) in order to face topics relevant for
ley, Boston, San Paolo, Madrid, Barcelona, Santiago de Chile the business and new technologies and create value in an
and Tel Aviv), handle a network of relations with all players innovative manner. The active communities concern the
involved in innovation activities and are the main source of following topics: blockchains, drones, energy storage, the
scouting for startups and SMEs, with the objective of re- metaverse, robotics, sensors and quantum computing.
sponding to the innovation needs of the Business Lines. The There are also work groups dedicated to so-called wear-
scouting activity also focuses on promoting the adoption ables, additive manufacturing, data monetization, AI and
of solutions that can maximize our sustainable profile, such machine learning, materials and hydrogen. The Communi-
as promoting circularity, guaranteeing inclusiveness and at- ties continuously monitor potential technological improve-
tempting to face social problems. ments and share new useful business models, added value
The Labs make it possible for startups to work alongside services or use cases for types of technologies that could
the technicians and experts of our Business Lines in order be adopted in various Group areas.
to develop and test solutions in the most fertile environ- We constantly promote and spread the culture, knowledge
ment possible. In addition to the laboratories in Milan, Pisa, and behaviors of Open Innovation in the countries in which
Catania, San Paolo and Be’er Sheva, in September 2022 we we operate, favoring an approach called “learning by doing”,
inaugurated the new AI & Robotics Lab in Tel Aviv, which is which allows people to think and act in a different way and
specialized in developing artificial intelligence (AI) and ro- disseminate methodologies and tools for strengthening
botics for renewable energies and energy networks. This the generation of ideas and supporting their development.
is the fourth innovative initiative launched by the Group in There are many tools and initiatives for innovation that are
Israel and is managed by Enel Green Power and Enel Grids useful for the dissemination of the Open Innovation culture.
(the Group Business Lines dedicated to the generation and In addition to the recurring newsletters, surveys and webi-
distribution of clean energy). nars, periodic meetings are held with all Business Lines on
Open Innovation also means creating partnerships with key many levels, not just managerial, but also with the non-hi-
players. We are currently committed to 43 collaborations for erarchical communities. We make the necessary resourc-
innovation that cover the areas that are the most strategic es available for promoting a culture of knowledge and its
for the Group and that concentrate on relevant topics, such value on all levels, increasing awareness among people also
as the new sustainable materials for Enel assets (Novamont), thanks to training courses, events and meetings.
ISO 56002 standard “Innovation management -
Innovation management system - Guidance”
Innovation management is a strategic topic for organiza- valuable proposals, in line with market developments.
tions and companies, and the ability to manage innovation The standard is based on eight pillars: coherence with the
as a system and organize all the phases of the innovation Innovability® vision (innovation for the Company and a more
process represents a critical success factor. sustainable world); generation of value through innovative
In August 2022, we were among the first companies in the ideas; future-oriented leadership and challenges to the sta-
world to voluntarily adopt the ISO 56002 standard for inno- tus quo; innovation culture as a strategic asset; innovation
vation management. This standard is part of a wider series development based on customer requirements; manage-
of ISO 56000 standards and covers all aspects of innovation ment of uncertainty and risk mitigation; proactiveness and
management: from the creation of an idea to its develop- resilience; systemic approach for a solid performance ap-
ment on a global scale. By adopting this standard, organi- praisal.
zations can consolidate their governance, increasing the ef- Furthermore, in 2022 we signed an agreement with UNI
fectiveness of innovation and therefore business opportuni- (Italian Standardization Body) to draw up a public document
ties, which in turn creates the conditions for a wide-spread known as “Reference practices”, which has the purpose of
innovation culture that stimulates the creativity of employ- making Enel a reference on a national level in Italy in the area
ees and stakeholders, and promotes the emergence of new of innovation governance.
How ideas are transformed into business solutions,
creating shared value
Here are some examples of Innovability® projects (see also
chapters: “Clean electrification”, “Circular economy”, “Con-
servation of natural capital”):
Green hydrogen Customer centricity
NextHy: a global initiative designed to stimulate the Customer recognition through biometric factors (Spain),
growth of the entire green hydrogen ecosystem. such as, for example, vocal recognition, to guarantee safe
Its center is the Hydrogen Industrial Lab in Sicily, an and inclusive access to our services as an element for
industrial technological validation platform that will the authentication of customers at call centers, which
be built between Carlentini and Sortino, where new improves the personalization of the service, emotional
technologies will be developed for accelerating the involvement and accelerating the resolution of customer
reduction of the cost of green hydrogen and the requirements.
decarbonization of the so-called “difficult to abate” Pilot project for the application of advanced artificial
sectors. intelligence models to improve the operation of contact
NextHy is one of the Italian projects that benefited from centers (Italy, Romania, USA, Spain). These models
the IPCEI Hy2Tech loan, the 4.5 billion euro fund made personify the needs and language of our customers,
available by the European Union for the development of generating concepts/phrases in hundreds of transcripts
initiatives of strategic interest centered on hydrogen. thanks to the pre-trained model. This is useful for testing
The NextHy project also includes NextHy Booster, an the qualitative level of our operators, preparing ourselves,
acceleration program promoted by Enel Green Power in the future, for new evolutionary sales scenarios,
that has the objective of supporting the most promising automatic training and proactive support.
startups to scale their technology and their business to Use of neurosciences to obtain more in-depth
green hydrogen, creating a long-term partnership with information about the efforts customers make to
Enel and connecting to the global network of green understand the commercial communications and to
hydrogen. simplify relationships, thanks to the interpretation of
spontaneous physiological input (Italy).
Smart City Robots and safety
YoUrban (Italy), a single point of access for using all Enel Innovative robots for inspections of submarine
X solutions activated in the urban perimeter, from the cables (Italy), operations at a height (Italy and Brazil)
digital management of public lighting system faults to and for cutting vegetation (Brazil), to allow safe and
the innovative City Analytics solution for optimal urban remotely controlled/automatic interaction with network
planning. In 2022, new functions were developed that components for operating and maintenance activities,
provide a complete overview of communities and areas and to cut vegetation near the network.
of improvement in terms of services for citizens, CO and New sustainable helmets (Italy and Romania), that can
2
the degree of circularity. house intelligent glasses for hands-free operation and
other accessories to improve safety. They are more
ergonomic and made with recycled material.
Weather predictions, variability of natural resources Use of water and biodiversity
and system operation Collaboration with Reiwa Engine (Italy) for the automatic
In Italy, development of four parallel projects, selected cleaning of photovoltaic panels without the use of water.
thanks to the tender launched together with ESA In the wind park of Gibson Bay, in South Africa, an
(European Space Agency), that are concentrated on innovative system for preventing the impact of bats
the development of algorithms for estimating the and birds with wind generators was successfully tested
equivalent of snow water and the content of water in by means of installing an acoustic deterrent device
the alpine snowpack via satellite, to be validated with in developed by the US startup NRG Systems, which made
situ measures. To best manage the production of water it possible to reduce the risk of mortality for local bats by
in our power plants, it is in fact necessary to know not 80%.
only the amount of rain, but also the volume of water New solutions based on remote image detection systems
contained in the snowpack (Snow Water Equivalent), (such as satellites and LiDAR) and artificial intelligence, are
which is an important temporary reserve of winter able to identify the presence of archaeological finds and
precipitation. Therefore, by improving the prediction of vegetable species before opening the job sites, in order
precipitation and the resulting prediction of hydroelectric to protect biodiversity.
generation through the combination of satellite data,
weather prediction models and in situ data, it is possible
to manage the risks related to the variability in natural
resources and optimize market strategies.
The photovoltaic plant in El Paso, Colombia: the objective
of the project is to automate the acquisition process of
the cloud coverage above the plant and provide intraday
and intrahour predictions of radiation, using satellite
images and sky-cams in machine learning algorithms.
The need results from the intrinsic characteristics of the
area, as the El Paso photovoltaic plant is located in an
equatorial area where it is very difficult to evaluate the
actual amount of clouds in the sky with normal weather
prediction services.
NET-ZERO GRID
The innovation of the electricity grid to mitigate
the environmental impact and improve its resilience
“Enel Grids is taking another significant step toward
the decarbonization of electricity grids, thanks to the
pilot installation of cutting-edge sustainable poles. An
Lourdes García Duarte
innovative combination of pine or fir materials and with
Head of Sustainable Network
an external layer made of 66% recycled polyethylene.
Design and Resilience-Innovation
The new poles make it possible to save up to 130 kg of
Enel Grids
CO as compared to similar standard poles made of
2eq
concrete and without the toxic materials used in the
old products. This is an important result for making our
networks increasingly Net-Zero.”
Enel’s Net-Zero strategy for the electricity grid sec- The utilized wood comes from certified sustainable forests
tor is concentrated on reducing the CO emissions where there is the obligation to guarantee and not alter
2
from activities, reducing network losses and adopt- the continuous growth of the forest, whereas the exter-
ing circular, low-emission materials and components. An nal layer of polyethylene seals the wood, protecting it from
interesting direction of innovation of Enel Grids is in fact atmospheric agents, improving its fire resistance and pre-
that of Sustainable Design and Resilience, targeted to- serving fauna from the electrical risk. The absence of im-
ward mitigating the environmental impact and improving pregnating material, which was used for the old wooden
the resilience of the network with new technologies and supports, represents an additional result in terms of sus-
sustainable materials, in order to rethink the systems and tainability, in line with the new directives issued by the Eu-
components. ropean Commission.
The pilot project of the sustainable pole was field tested in The pilot project successfully tested mechanical resis-
this sector. The solution was also tested by some Northern tance and resistance to aging, and was able to evaluate
European DSOs. This is a new support for low and medium the operational installation and maintenance activities.
voltage. It is made of wood obtained from certified sus-
tainable forests in order to reduce the carbon footprint of For in-depth information about the Group’s activities con-
the electricity grid. The main structure is made with certi- cerning network infrastructures, see the chapters “Clean
fied wood, whereas the external layer is comprised of 66% electrification” and “Circular economy”.
recycled polyethylene. The poles, thanks to the innovative
combination of two materials, make it possible to save up
to 130 kg of CO with the same dimensions of standard
2eq
cement poles.
NET-ZERO GRID
Focusing on hydroelectric flexibility to accelerate transition
and promote national energy autonomy
“The role of hydroelectrics, a clean source par
excellence, in the electrical system is becoming more
important as an enabling technology for transition
Vincenzo Ricchiuto
thanks to modernization and flexibilization projects
Short term management
developed in full compliance with the environment
Italy, GECM
and local communities. This result was made possible
by an intense and lengthy synergy with Generation,
Innovation and the Territory.”
The challenge we are facing is to explore capacities In particular, in Italy, the increase in terms of MW enabled
that are not yet expressed in terms of flexibility of for the secondary regulation service was more than 550
use of the existing renewable fleet with innovative MW approx., equal to 11% approx. of the total currently en-
modernization, efficiency improvement and management abled for all technologies in Italy. Furthermore, approx. 50
interventions. With experimental modeling and the im- plants, for a total of 650 MW approx. have been enabled
plementation of new operating schemes, which keep up for the market of services also through aggregations and
with the continuous regulatory changes, we are aiming to innovative modeling.
test and highlight the pivotal role that the hydroelectric
fleet can take on during the energy mix evolution process As is known, 2022 was a year with strong geopolitical
thanks to its extreme versatility and wide-spread presence tensions, but also a record shortage in the hydroelectric
all over the territory. resource, causing considerable increases in production
costs and unexpected reductions in availability of some
In 2022, the first phase was completed with a 5-year time thermoelectric plants.
schedule of initiatives that basically involved the most of
the Italian programmable hydroelectric fleet with a specific In this context, the plants involved in the efficiency im-
investment plan. For some it was an extension of poten- provement and flexibilization program have provided a
tial in terms of regulation and flexibility of use, whereas for considerable contribution with regard to the safe manage-
others it was a true start in a new activity; the purpose of ment of the electricity grid and the containment of system
it all is to guarantee also with hydroelectric a continuous charges, especially during the most critical periods.
service for the electricity grid oriented toward balancing
the intermittence generated by NPRS (non-programmable
renewable source) thereby favoring the safe penetration of
new capacity.
Sustainable innovation and intellectual property
In the Open Innovability® ecosystem, Intellectual Property ple, startups, universities, research centers, suppliers, and
(IP) plays a key role in protecting and enhancing the val- consultants.
ue of the innovative solutions created and developed in- As at December 31, 2022, the IP portfolio, which ensures
house or in collaboration with third parties. protection from a geographical point of view on all the
IP is a key component to regulate and foster the sharing markets in which the Group is present, contains:
of ideas, technologies and knowledge between Enel peo-
883 23 194 Trade 2,027
secrets
patents for utility models designs registered trademarks,
of a technical and
industrial invention, of which 1,642
commercial nature
belonging to 163 have already been
that are constantly
technology families; registered, and 385
coded and kept
of these, 711 have are pending
in line with the
been granted and
requirements of
172 are pending
the internal Trade
Secrets Management
organizational
procedure
As part of the activities aimed at protecting and develop- Through the IP Reward Program, prizes and awards, includ-
ing the portfolio of trademarks owned by the Group, no- ing monetary ones, are paid to Enel inventors of solutions
tably, in the year of Enel’s 60th anniversary, in addition to protected (or in the process of being protected) by patent,
the registration of the “Enel 60 years” mark, the proce- design, copyright or trade secret. As part of the IP Reward
dure for registering the Enel brand in the Special Register program, the first edition of the Enel Intellectual Property
of Historic Trademarks of National Interest was initiated. Awards were held on November 29, 2022, where the inven-
This important recognition is awarded, following the sub- tions protected by intellectual property and deemed most
mission of a special application, to trademarks that have strategically relevant to the Group were honored. These
been registered for at least fifty years, or for which there initiatives, together with regular internal communication
is proof of their continuous use for at least fifty years, and and awareness-raising activities, have also contributed to
that are used to market products or services made in a na- an increase in the number of inventions proposed by em-
tional production company of excellence with long-term ployees through the company IP portal.
links to Italy. During 2022, intellectual property codification and protec-
Other notable achievements include the registration of tion activities continued in all the Global Business Lines. In
trademarks that identify models operating in the field of particular:
•
sustainability, such as: Enel X Global Retail focused its activity on strategic plat-
i. Valuability® of the model, copyrighted by Enel SpA, forms, codifying copyrights on the Big Data Platform, the
aimed at fostering the inclusion at work and active par- strategic data container for all Enel X business units, and
ticipation of colleagues with disabilities; X Customer, the global Enel X customer management
ii. CirculAbility® of the model – also copyrighted by Enel system.
SpA – for measuring circularity. With regard to the circular economy, the circularity
Enel has consolidated its processes for managing the schemes in Enel X, together with their scores and op-
generation and use of intellectual property rights in the erating mechanisms, have been protected under copy-
Intellectual Property Management and Trade Secrets right law.
Management organizational procedures. Both of these In the field of telemedicine, a multiple design mark was
view human capital as an essential element in the creation registered in the European Union on the graphical user
of IP and aim to incentivize employee participation in the interfaces of the “Smart Axistance eWell” app, which of-
inventive process, empowering them on the strategic im- fers users a complete wellness package.
portance of all findings.
•
In Enel Green Power and Thermal Generation, the fol- in the valorization of Enel Grids’ intellectual property
lowing notable developments were achieved during the through an out-licensing strategy. Gridspertise will par-
year: ticipate within the framework of these agreements as a
–
in the photovoltaic sector, (i) a patent application for commercial and technical partner, offering customized
an industrial invention and a design patent on a solu- versions of licensed digital solutions to meet the specific
tion that automates the process of installing photo- needs of third-party DSOs.
voltaic panels in the field, reducing installation time In May 2022, Enel Grids founded the “Open Power Grids”
and costs and increasing operator safety; (ii) a patent association, for the first time making its historical wealth
application in co-ownership with the Commissariat à of expertise and experience on distribution networks
l’Énergie Atomique et aux Énergies Alternatives (CEA) accessible free of charge to member operators outside
on a system to optimize the automatic removal and the Enel Group. The objective of Open Power Grids is
insertion of the wafer bar holder of the storage tray to create a collaborative ecosystem to foster innova-
used to process wafers in chemical hoods. In addi- tion, aggregating experiences, ideas, technologies and
tion, the generation and protection, mainly in the resources to make electricity grids more resilient, sus-
form of trade secrets, of the technological know-how tainable and participative, also based on a market-driv-
required for the Gigafactory project continues at the en standardization process. In this way, the initiative can
3SUN factory. help improve the effectiveness and measurability of the
CEA-INES is one of Europe’s leading photovoltaic re- concrete actions taken by Enel to achieve the Net-Ze-
search institutes. A collaborative research agreement ro ambition. The proposed approach is to provide open
was negotiated and signed with the institute for the access, within the association, to the existing functional
development of the two-terminal Perovskite-sili- specifications (of electricity grid components and de-
con tandem technology, with the aim of producing vices and network design solutions) on which Enel Grids
high-efficiency devices that can be industrialized on holds copyright and, based on these, to develop new
the lines of the Gigafactory in Catania. The manage- ones, in a logic of co-design, maximizing the aspects of
ment of the IP rights arising from the collaboration sustainability, standardization and innovation.
was a crucial factor in the negotiation of this agree-
•
ment, which is based on the strong technological Enel X Way protected the JuiceBox DC and JuiceBox 4.0
background of the two partners; smart home charging devices respectively through: (i) an
–
in the field of hydroelectric generation, a utility mod- international design registered in the European Union,
el patent application for a robotic solution that fa- the United Kingdom and the United States and (ii) an in-
cilitates plant inspections by enabling access to all ternational design registered in Canada, Mexico and the
places that are difficult for personnel to reach, such United States. Intellectual property protection work on
as hydroelectric coils or small-diameter hydroelectric electric vehicle charging stations also extended to the
pipelines. registration of the JuiceMedia 2.0 and JuiceMod product
designs in the European Union and the United States.
•
Enel Grids filed two patent applications for inventions in In the field of electric car charging points, Enel X Way
2022: one in the field of asset recognition and anomaly pursued the goal of inclusiveness by designing infra-
detection of grids and grid events (ODIN project) and the structures that take into account the needs of motor-
other in the field of safety devices for workers working at ists with reduced mobility. In fact, in collaboration with
height. Other noteworthy events included: (i) the regis- ANGLAT, the national trade association that protects
tration of the design of the new sustainable road cabin, the rights to mobility of people with disabilities, and fol-
which will be developed using recycled materials to re- lowing the criteria of Universal Design, Enel X Way has
duce environmental impact, and (ii) the filing of a utility created an additional maneuvering area marked on the
model patent application in the field of safety, consisting ground by zebra stripes and featuring bollards to pro-
of a method for delimiting road construction sites. tect the infrastructure from possible impacts. With the
Also during the year, Gridspertise consolidated its IP intention of promoting the project and facilitating its
portfolio by filing a patent application for the Quantum usability by as many users as possible, Enel X Way en-
Edge – QEd® device, which, by exploiting edge com- hanced the intellectual property of the designs through
puting to digitize the physical components of secondary the open property model with author protection through
substations, reduces installation, training, operation and Creative Commons. Specifically, Creative Commons At-
maintenance costs and increases network reliability. tribution-Non Commercial licenses were applied, which
Enel Grids concluded two major licensing agreements allow third parties to download and use the designs free
with Gridspertise in 2022 for the commercialization of of charge.
some of its key digital assets, including the Grid Blue
Sky solutions. These agreements constitute a milestone
•
Enel Global Services filed a patent application in Italy for among other things, scenario data to assess the impact
an industrial invention on the innovation management of climate change on specific assets/production activities.
method, also protected as the word mark Enel OOPS...! The most notable investments in this area include develop-
Innovation®. This method is based on perfecting indus- ment models that aim to: (i) characterize an asset’s ability
trial processes using the tools of Open Innovability®. to “withstand” the possible effects of climate change; (ii)
quantify the likelihood of an event or combination of cli-
Enel SpA also filed a patent application in Italy for a method mate events damaging the asset; and (iii) provide an index
of evaluating managerial positions, based on a model ca- of the asset’s “weakness” with a specific technical ap-
pable of acquiring and processing personnel management proach to prioritize actions/fields for improvement.
parameters using a proprietary algorithm, thus providing a Finally, during the year, the Group consolidated its inter-
meaningful index that meets the needs of the People and nal non-financial intellectual property reporting process
Organization Function. based on an internal proprietary methodology capable of
More generally, the Group continues to invest resourc- codifying, protecting and valuing corporate intangibles.
es in the development of IP-intensive solutions, mainly in This methodology aims to provide a qualitative assess-
the forms of authorship protection and trade secrecy on ment of the intellectual property and an indication of the
databases and algorithms for forecasting the electricity investment that would be required to replicate the set of
and gas markets, advanced quantitative models that use, intangibles subject to codification.
Below the 2022 results related to the targets of the previous 2022-2024 Sustainability Plan, the resulting progress and the tar-
gets of the 2023-2025 Sustainability Plan, which may be redefi ned, added to, or surpassed with respect to the previous Plan.
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
Disseminating the IT security culture 19 cyber security knowledge- 15 cyber security knowledge-
4 S
and changing people’s behaviour in sharing events executed sharing events executed each
9 order to reduce risks year T
11
9 Information security verifi cation 1,587 verifi cation activities 1,400 verifi cation activities T
activities (Ethical Hacking, carried out each year
11 Vulnerability Assessment, etc.)
Execution of cyber exercises 50 cyber exercises carried out 186 cyber exercises
9 S
involving plants/industrial sites in the period 2023-2025
11 T
ytiruces
rebyC
Digitalization
Material topics (I level) Plan SDG
• Innovation, circular
economy and digital
transformation
Double
materiality
Growth accelerators
•Digitalization
Read more
Cyber exercises are drills aimed at simulating a cyber security incident, carried out with
the objective of training the reaction capacity of the involved subjects and testing the pro-
cesses and technologies in the fi eld. The exercises are conducted by Enel’s Cyber Emer-
gency Readiness Team (CERT) and involve both technical and business reference struc-
tures. The simulation perf ormed generates awareness and addresses possible needs for
improvement of technical or organizational aspects.
Goals Progress
I Industrial E Environmental S Social
G Governance T Technological New Redefi ned Outdated Not in line In line Achieved
N.A. = not applicable
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
-54.8 mil printed pages -17 mil printed pages in 2025
12 E
(vs 2019) (vs. 2019)
13 S
T
7.3 mil hours of downtime Activities to reduce PC, laptop
E
outside normal working hours and monitor downtime
Activities to reduce CO emissions S
2
T
7.3 mil meetings held via video Extended use of video
E
communication services communication systems
S
T
Reuse and exchange of information in 63 new e-API interconnections 100 new e-API
9 S
the e-API Digital Ecosystem interconnections in the
12 period 2023-2025 T
Read more
The e-API Digital Ecosystem is the digital environment through which all the companies of
Enel Group can easily, quickly and automatically share information normally confi ned within
specifi c vert ical applications (“silos” of information). Thanks to the enabling technology of
the API (Application Programming Interf ace), Enel’s data fl ows and functionalities are treat-
ed as “data-as-a-product”, fostering sustainability through a real reuse and exchange of
information and a reduction of time and resources needed.
snoitulos
latigiD
Digitalization
1,587
ASSURANCE
CHECKS (ETHICAL
•
HACKING, Technology is essential in order to innovate, improving service quality, efficiency and
VULNERABILITY guide and enable the creation of sustainable the resilience of our grid infrastructure is
ASSESSMENT) development models. driven by a single digital platform, Grid Blue
1,580 in 2021 Indeed, digital technologies, both Sky, which standardizes and optimizes the
+0.4% established and cutting-edge, contribute engineering, operation and maintenance
significantly to improving energy efficiency, phases and places the customer at the
decarbonization, and the development heart of every activity;
•
of automated business and production our global customer base is managed by
6 processes, thus promoting the circular the Customer Operations platform, which
economy and new business models. renders the customer support, service
SIMULATED Through such platforms, increasing levels of activation, payment and billing processes
PHISHING
scalability and efficiency can be achieved, smart, replicable and automated. We also
CAMPAIGNS
reducing marginal costs. leverage Enel X’s digital platforms to glob-
4 campaigns
Specifically: ally offer innovative products and services
in 2021 •
our global digital platforms promote the for the B2C, B2B and B2G segments;
+50% •
growth of renewable energy by providing the working life of all our people is increas-
common interfaces and smart solutions, ingly supported by digital, allowing them to
thanks to technologies such as Digital Twin focus on higher value-added activities and
19
and Artificial Intelligence, which improve ensuring their security.
business development, engineering and
EVENTS
construction, operation and maintenance;
TO RAISE
AWARENESS
OF CYBER
SECURITY
18 events
in 2021 Technology
+5.6%
Digital Company
Operating
Our people
Model
Sustainable digitalization and digital for sustainability
In our digital transformation, we aim to use digital solutions Furthermore, in line with the 2030 decarbonization targets,
as tools for the development of a sustainable future, and to a number of criteria based on Global Warming Potential
develop them on the basis of sustainability criteria. were included in tenders for digital professional services
The main actions taken in 2022 concerned: in 2022, which allow participants with lower greenhouse
•
decarbonization and reduction of emissions linked to gas emissions in terms of CO to gain a higher technical
2eq
digital solutions; score.
•
circularity of the digital devices and materials compris-
ing the digital assets of the Group; In 2022, we drafted and published our Digital Sustainabil-
•
promotion of social inclusion through the development ity Policy, which establishes the sustainability orientation
of assistive technologies and solutions that ensure ac- of the Group’s initiatives and considers digital to be a key
cessibility and generate value by meeting local needs; factor. With this Policy, we are committed to ensuring that
•
promotion of best environmental performance and the Company’s digital solutions comply with sustainability
adoption of human rights principles with the suppliers criteria, as well as promoting the sustainable use of tech-
of digital products and solutions. For more information, nology in all business processes, at all stages of the initia-
see the chapters on “Managing human rights” and “Sus- tives and in the different countries of the Group.
tainable supply chain”. We also launched a project in 2022 to create a corporate
Several challenges have been launched on the openinnov- framework in which to assess and mitigate the ethical risk
ability.com platform with a view to incorporating environ- related to the use of artificial intelligence and ensure its
mental considerations in their resolution (see chapter on safe and efficient use, in line with legislative changes at Eu-
“Innovation”). ropean level.
PLATFORMS: ensuring a rapid and effective response
to continuous change
The new Company strategy
that transforms complexities
into opportunities
Roberto Bianchessi
Head of Platformization Services –
Global Digital Solutions “Platforms play a key role in the Company in that they
build trust for all our colleagues. They make it possible
to share knowledge, enabling new operational and
business models.”
The digital platforms are one of the pillars of Enel’s This Enel Platform will be an ecosystem of technologies,
strategy, since they are, together with the eco- methodologies, services and skills deeply embedded in
systems, tools based on maximum information the corporate culture. The goal is to foster participative
sharing and mutual trust. and strongly data-driven digital development ecosystems,
Being platform-oriented allows us to create a competitive based on an agile approach to operations and the use of
advantage as digital platforms enable new operational and cloud technology.
business models (e.g., sharing economy). For this reason, in 2022 Enel decided to launch the Platform
The Enel Digital Platform is the final step in realizing Enel’s School initiative to spread the potential of Platformization
full digital potential: it allows easy access to all Company among all Enel people through a “train the trainer” educa-
databases, breaking down silos and information barriers, tional model: in-house trainers, skilled in sharing strategic
and fostering collaboration and digital sustainability. concepts, guide the transmission of knowledge through
The reuse of data and conscious software development video and bitesize information materials.
have a direct impact on the reduction of carbon emissions.
Key drivers of the digital transformation
Cloud computing the amount of time and resources spent on exchanging in-
formation flows. A total of 63 new e-API interconnections
The cloud represents a fundamental strategic enabler were implemented in 2022.
which allows us to use IT resources (both in terms of infra-
structure and applications) and which, by making full use
of the access possibilities provided by the network, allows Machine learning and predictive
to reduce waste tied to the consumption of unused re- maintenance
sources. The migration of applications to the cloud made it
possible to significantly reduce the demand for energy and We adopt machine learning technologies to conduct pre-
consequently the consumption of resources. From 2019 to dictive analysis in relation to the maintenance of electricity
date, while data storage and processing capacity have in- distribution networks and generation plants, identifying
creased considerably, there has been a 52% reduction in possible errors in advance and acting before faults occur
CO emissions. on the main components. Reducing the risk of malfunc-
2
tions has a significant impact not only in economic terms,
but also in relation to the environment and personal safety.
Unified Communications and Therefore, using these technologies improves the quality
Collaboration (UCC) of service provided, making it more sustainable over time,
while ensuring an optimized use of internal resources and
Services such as instant messaging (chat), IP telephony, inspections focusing on the equipment most exposed to
audio and video conferencing take full advantage of the the risk of failure.
sharing model which, through the internet, allows con-
tent to be shared and enjoyed from personal computers,
smartphones or tablets, thereby reducing the need to trav- Circularity of digital devices
el and, in turn, lowering carbon dioxide emissions.
The decommissioning of Company equipment generates
waste, the disposal of which merits special attention. For
Data sharing and Enel Application this reason, the circular management of digital assets in
Programming Interface (e-API) the Group’s various countries is achieved by safeguarding
both the extension of the devices’ service life, by selling
The e-API ecosystem is the digital environment where them to employees or third parties (13,427 devices sold in
all Group companies can share quickly and in real time – 2022), and disposing of these devices in line with recycling
through standard interfaces and data paths – information principles, amounting to a total of 33 tons of equipment
that would normally remain confined to specific vertical in 2022; devices categorized as electronic waste are dis-
applications (information silos). This ecosystem has helped posed of at certain suppliers, who will then recycle the de-
speed up the adoption of digital solutions, reduce data re- vices themselves.
dundancies within the Group and, more generally, reduce
Digital Carbon
Footprint
In this context, we developed a Digital Carbon Footprint
In 2022, we launched several initiatives to monitor
Framework, which confirmed that with a 200% increase
and reduce digital-related emissions, mainly aimed
in the computational capacity of our systems and a 107%
at optimizing and consolidating the use of cloud
increase in data storage capacity, we were able to achieve
infrastructure, promoting circular and sustainable
a 26% reduction in CO emissions from digital sources
management of digital assets, and encouraging the 2
between 2018 and 2022.
conscious and responsible development and use of
software and hardware.
Digital for people
“Digital Sustainability” school The accessibility of digital solutions must be provided for
at the design stage, which is why the Digital Accessibility
In 2022, we made available to our people a training course organizational unit was created in 2022 in order to act as
on “Digital Sustainability”, consisting of 10 videos, to bet- a point of contact for the Group and support the manage-
ter understand how digital technology guides us towards ment of related initiatives and the development of digital
achieving the UN 2030 Agenda’s Sustainable Development products and services that are easy to use and compliant
Goals. This training course, delivered in collaboration with with the relevant regulations and standards.
the Digital Sustainability Foundation, also aims to raise
awareness of behaviors related to the use of digital tech-
nologies, enabling us to understand the contribution we A new life for our PCs
can make in our daily lives to sustainability. The videos are
now available in five languages and have over 50 thousand The initiative to donate personal computers that have
views among Enel people around the world. reached the end of their service life has been implemented
with the aim of creating a positive social impact on public
and private entities, which carry out various kinds of activ-
Accessibility and inclusiveness in digital ities of social relevance and/or which pursue public benefit
systems purposes. By giving PCs a new life, for the second year we
are reinforcing our commitment to supporting communi-
The use of data and platform logic, coupled with the ac- ties in the countries where we operate, by promoting digi-
cessibility and inclusiveness of digital systems, allows ac- tal inclusion and enhancing the circular economy of digital
cess to new joint business models and the offer of new devices, thereby extending the equipment’s service life
services and products, including to vulnerable customers. through reuse. 213 devices were donated in 2022.
Video communication(1) Printing service(2)
More than 7.3 million meetings 81 million pages printed
More than 639.3 thousand tons of CO avoided 5.8 tons of CO produced
2 2
The printing service, based on new generation printer has made it possible to reduce paper consumption over
models set up for a more eco-sustainable use, contin- the years and, in turn, reduce the impact on the environ-
ues to be in operation at all Group offices. Together with ment.
a more rational use of prints and digitalization, the service
(1) More than 7.3 million meetings in 2021, almost 5.1 million in 2020 and 244 thousand in 2019, respectively avoiding contributing 587.5 thousand metric tons
of CO in 2021, 444.7 thousand in 2020 and 242.1 thousand in 2019.
2
(2) 83 million pages printed in 2021, 88 million in 2020 and 136 million in 2019, which respectively produced 6.5, 8.4 and 12.5 tons of CO.
2
tions (desktops, laptops, monitors) of our people working
in Italy. This was measured thanks to a Microsoft function
(System Center Configuration Manager) on the worksta-
tions, which can identify when a workstation is on and
not being used. Following the analysis, specific aware-
ness-raising initiatives were defined, aimed at reducing
PC Power Management
electricity consumption. Also this year, there has been a
– Italy(3) decrease in the hours of inactivity. This is thanks to both
our awareness-raising activities on energy efficiency and
7.3 million hours of use to the new IT tools made available to our people during
48.8 tons of CO produced the Covid-19 pandemic, which enabled a reduction in
2
emissions. The greater use of mobile devices has in fact
made it possible to reduce the number of fixed devices in
the Group’s offices and, in turn, cut down the amount of
In 2022, we continued to monitor electricity consump- time that devices are on outside working hours.
tion outside normal working hours(4) of the IT worksta-
(3) 12 million hours of use in 2021, 18 million in 2020 and 32 million in 2019, which respectively produced 77.4, 159.6 and 321.1 tons of CO.
2
(4) Monday-Friday (from 7pm to 7am); Saturday and Sunday. Monitoring is not carried out on servers and personal computers which, by their nature, must be
operational at all times. Specifically, the indicator represents the amount of CO associated with the electricity consumption of desktop computers, laptops
2
and monitors, calculated after applying the average CO emission value per unit of electricity generated (gCO/kWh) in relation to the mix of sources present
2 2
in Italy.
Towards cyber-safe
electrification
In the era of digital transformation, cyber security is tak- all stakeholders including companies, legal institutions,
ing on a key role in ensuring business operations. supervisory bodies, suppliers, customers, and employees.
Typical cyber-attack types have changed radically in re-
cent years: the number has grown exponentially, as has
Policies and management models
their level of sophistication and impact, making it is in-
creasingly challenging to identify the source in a timely
manner. Sector studies confirm that the perception of In line with the needs of the energy industrial sector and
cyber risk is continuously growing. As compared to pre- with the Open Power strategic approach that characteriz-
vious years, the causes for increased cyberattacks also es it, we have adopted a systemic vision of cyber security
include geopolitical tensions. In fact the conflict between issues, as well as a global strategy of analysis, prevention
Russia and Ukraine has increased attention about this is- and management of cyber security events. The cyber s e-
sue. In particular, all state security agencies have warned curity path to support the Group’s digital transformation
public and private institutions about potential IT threads is based on creating, enhancing and adopting a security
against critical infrastructures. governance model, infrastructure and services in order to
In 2022, many of the world’s major attacks were carried make full use of opportunities – including with the help of
out by leveraging the supply chain and through compro- cutting-edge technologies – to boost the cyber resilience
mised third parties, which allowed attackers to target the of our infrastructure and applications.
primary target’s customers, partners, and suppliers. This Since September 2016, the Cyber Security unit has been
caused a sharp rise in the number of victims and attacks operating within Global Digital Solutions Function, re-
went increasingly undetected (the so-called “scale ef- porting directly to the Chief Information Officer (CIO) who
fect”). It is also interesting to observe that the majority of works under the Group Chief Information Security Officer
the attacks in the energy sector include ransomware, an (CISO). The unit is committed to ensuring the governance,
increasingly used method that causes the exfiltration (un- direction and control of cyber security issues, establishing
authorized copy, transfer or recovery) of the victim’s data strategy, policies and guidelines in compliance with na-
and its encryption, which gives the people responsible tional and international regulations, engineering support
for the attack an additional lever for receiving payment for the protection of the Group’s environments, monitor-
of ransom. ing of the risk posture through checks based on processes
It is also seen how the vulnerabilities detected in com- and technology, as well as monitoring and implementing
monly used software products are continuously increas- compliance requirements tied to cyber security regula-
ing and how they are taken advantage of with greater tions, and adopting technical solutions and procedures to
speed by cyber criminals. In particular, the zero-day type mitigate any weaknesses detected. The unit works syner-
vulnerabilities represent a large risk because they are dis- gically with the Business Lines and with the technical units
covered before software developers become aware of responsible for systems design and management, thanks
them and before they can release a patch. to the Cyber Security Risk Managers and Cyber Security
In a similar context of cyberwarfare, the only possible de- Response Managers. CISO and the Cyber Security Risk
fense is given by processes and technologies, which have Managers also make up the Cyber Security Operating
been developed and evolved over time to mitigate the Committee, which aims to evaluate cyber risks across the
IT risk. On top of constantly applying the cyber security business and determine the risk acceptance criteria based
strategy, we have set out special measures, also in order on the Group’s risk posture. The Cyber Security Commit-
to reinforce the “cyber security posture”,(5) aware of the tee, chaired by the Group’s CEO and made up of his/her
fact that overall, cyber risks can become a risk of eco- front lines, approves the cyber security strategy and peri-
systemic proportions within the broader context of the odically checks its progress. As determined at the meeting
complex and interconnected electricity industry. For ex- of April 2021, the Committee meets every six months. Two
ample, a large-scale blackout in this scenario would have meetings were held in 2022 (May and October).
socio-economic ramifications throughout the popula- In 2022, the Control and Risk Committee held 3 meetings
tion, companies and key institutions. with the objective of addressing in more depth the as-
The key elements are therefore sharing and coopera- pects related to organizational procedures (on a techni-
tion on cyber security issues with participation among cal and governance level), the crisis management process,
(5) “Cyber Security Posture” refers to the state of society’s adoption of cyber security principles.
Definition of the
the CERT operating model and the relative processes that
characterize them. IT security strategy
All areas actively participate in implementing the cyber se-
curity strategy by way of an integrated operating plan in
line with the Group’s objectives. Moreover, cyber security The cyber security strategy covers setting objectives and
strategy and initiatives are a key focus area for the princi- priorities to direct and coordinate investment initiatives for
pal executive and control bodies (e.g. Board of Directors, the Group as a whole, and to ensure adherence to cyber
Supervisory Bodies, etc.) for all the legal entities and Coun- security policies, setting targets, management reporting,
tries where the Group is present. and constant monitoring of ongoing security activities.
This process is guided by CISO and uses close integration
Moreover, the Group policy adopted in 2017 (the “Cyber and synergy with the various business areas, which com-
Security Framework”) addresses the principles and op- municate their needs, analyze opportunities, manage any
erational processes that support a global strategy of risk criticalities, and make proposals for initiatives.
analysis, prevention and management. Devising strategies is an iterative activity based on shar-
This Framework, based on a ‘systemic’ vision applies across ing and consolidation of the Group’s risk posture target.
the more traditional Information Technology (IT) sector, as The various actors involved analyze the options and po-
well as to Operational Technology (OT) environments tied tential initiatives within their respective business areas in
to the industrial world and the Internet of Things (IoT). In order to assess the feasibility, guarantee consensus, and
applying this Framework, the Cyber Security Risk Man- the necessary funds. The Cyber Security unit guides the
agement method was established in 2017. The method is process and, together with the other key players, gradually
applicable to all IT, OT and IoT environments and includes consolidates aspects such as future scenario, objectives,
all of the phases required to carry out a risk analysis and and possible strategic initiatives in a cyber s ecurity strate-
define the related mitigation plan, in line with the stated gy proposal document, with a high-level budget estimate
cyber security goals. To balance the advantages obtained and prioritization.
by the operation and use of IT/OT/IoT systems with the risk
that can potentially derive from them, well-informed, risk-
based decisions are of fundamental importance.
Enel has also created a “Cyber Emergency Readiness
Team” (CERT) to ensure proactive management and re-
sponses to cyber incidents, while also encouraging col-
laboration and exchanges of information within a network
of accredited international partners. Having entered into
an agreement with the US national CERT, there are now 9
accreditations with: Romania, Italy, Chile, Argentina, Peru,
Colombia, Brazil, Spain, and the US. Enel’s CERT is also part
of Trusted Introducer – a service that includes 464 CERTs
in 72 countries. In September 2018 Enel also joined FIRST
(Forum of Incident Response and Security Teams), which is
the largest and most widespread community in the sector,
with 602 members spread across 99 countries. Further-
more, in 2022 the CERT operating model was strengthened
with the creation of an internal team of security analysts.
The new operating model has exceeded the previous one,
implementing the internalization of the incident monitor-
ing and management activities and therefore, strengthen-
ing the activities 24x7.
Cyber security incident
at risk e-mails, 57 viruses, 172 web portal attacks, and 1.3
management million connections to harmful websites every day.
In 2022 Enel CERT responded to: 175 cyber security inci-
The multiplicity and complexity of the areas in which we dents with impact level 2; 16 incidents with impact level
operate (data, industry, and people) and of the techno- 3; and 0 incidents with the highest impact level of 4.
logical components (e.g. business critical systems such In the cases detected, to ensure an efficient and rapid re-
as SCADA – Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition, sponse and minimize the impact on people, services and
smart grids and smart meters) increasingly integrated in assets, all the relevant management procedures have been
the Group’s digital life, have made it necessary to config- put in place.
ure a structured cyber security system. This leads to the Specifically, when a cyber security incident translates into
need for a cyber defense model based on a systemic vision a potential data breach, the necessary actions are taken
that integrates the IT sector (starting from the cloud down immediately, in line with the Enel Group “Personal Data
to the data center and mobile phone), the OT (everything Breach Management” policy. Should a crisis situation arise
concerning industrial sector, such as generation plant re- that threatens the Enel Group’s business continuity, assets,
mote control) and the IoT (extension of communication reputation and/or profitability, the appropriate actions are
and artificial intelligence to the world of things). taken immediately, in line with the specific Group policy on
Through the monitoring systems, CERT collects 3 billion “Critical events management”.
events every day relating to the company’s assets from 7 Moreover, the “IT Service Continuity Management” policy
thousand data sources, correlates them through automat- formalizes a process to bring the risk affecting the avail-
ic analysis, and produces a hundred “incidents” on aver- ability of IT infrastructure down to an acceptable level,
age. The incidents are classified based on the Enel Cyber support business continuity requirements, and restore IT
Impact Matrix (on a scale of 0 to 4), making use of the best services based on the results deriving from a Business Im-
events correlation capabilities thanks to the adoption of pact Analysis when a severe interruption occurs, including
highly advanced services. when caused by an accident.
The vast majority of “incidents” are classified as 0/1; these
have no significant impact on Group systems and are au- EDR (Endpoint Detection and Response) technology blocks
tomatically or semi-automatically intercepted and/or man- violations by using innovative features and advanced par-
aged by the existing company defenses; this way they are adigms not only to identify viruses and malware on end-
able to prevent and/or mitigate the impact of potential cy- points, but also to detect suspicious sequences of tech-
ber-attacks. nical events that could prove to be part of an attempted
Incidents classified as 2/3/4 have a potential impact on the attack.
Group and are managed by CERT analysts, involving any
affected stakeholders. Thanks to the protection services, Detailed below is the number of cyber security events re-
every day, in 2022 CERT intercepted on average 1.2 million corded in 2022.
2022
Total number of cyber security breaches or other cyber security incidents(1) 0
Total amount of fines/sanctions paid related to cyber security breaches or other cyber security incidents 0
Total number of customers and employees impacted by data breaches affecting the Group 0
Total number of data breaches(2) 0
(1) The value reported for the KPI “Total number of cyber security breaches or other cyber security incidents” refers to Level 4 incidents.
(2) The KPI “Total number of data breaches” refers to the number of events that occurred as a result of a cyber security incident (i.e. the number reported does
not include any disclosures occurring as a result of non-digital incidents).
Furthermore, in order to boost our capacity to prevent, re- continuous improvement – the quality and completeness
act to and manage incidents, some cyber exercises simu- of the materials provided to help with decision-making,
lating a real attack were carried out, involving staff working the execution times for each phase, and how well the pro-
in the production environments. At the end of each exer- cedures had been followed. In 2022, in particular, 50 cyber
cise, reports were produced containing details of the ac- exercises were carried out in industrial environments in 11
tions taken during the simulation, to assess – with a view to Countries where the Group is present.
Main projects and initiatives
risks for the entire Group. As a result, all activities are man-
aged with a risk-based approach following the security by
All cyber security projects, programs, and initiatives are design principle to ensure a continuous due diligence pro-
designed to avoid, mitigate or remediate cyber security cess that also includes self-assurance activities.
CERT – RISK MONITORING EXTENSION
“CERT – Risk Monitoring extension”. CERT uses emer- tificial intelligence, it is possible to learn or improve detec-
gency technologies such as SOAR (Security Orchestra- tion capacities based on available data.
tion, Automation and Response) and machine learning to These technologies make it possible to consistently accel-
support Big Data, which make it possible to automate and erate, enrich and trace the necessary activities during the
streamline incident management activities and make use analysis and management phase of an incident, providing
of improved visibility of cyber threats, increasing efficien- considerable support to the analyst who can therefore
cy in managing new ones and the related investigations. In parallelize and concentrate on more complex tasks that
particular, thanks to the SOAR system, through the defini- require human intervention.
tion of operating flows it is possible to automate repetitive
tasks, whereas through machine learning, a branch of ar-
MULTI-FACTOR AUTHENTICATION (MFA)
“Multi Factor Authentication (MFA)” is a cloud solution line with the regulatory framework and is strongly recom-
used to enforce the identification method for users during mended to counter emerging threats of theft of creden-
the authentication procedure. Adopting MFA enables a tials, including those using social engineering techniques
person accessing a system to identify himself/herself (e.g., phishing or potential user behavior not in line with
through a second authentication factor via SMS or an app policy). The adoption of the solution is operational for all
installed on his/her smartphone. The MFA solution is in users.
ASSURANCE CHECKS
Assurance checks (Ethical Hacking, Vulnerability Assess- frastructures). 1,587 checks were performed in 2022. Fol-
ment). These activities are carried out on an ongoing basis lowing these checks, we can identify the best measures to
both using automated tools and manually, to assess and eliminate or mitigate the detected vulnerabilities or threats
quantify any weaknesses in IT, OT and IoT environments and, in turn, any associated harmful exploits.
(applications, systems, IoT devices, architectures and/or in-
DMARC “E-MAIL FRAUD DEFENSE”
DMARC “E-mail Fraud Defense”. This solution completes incorrect sender address that exploits the Group brand.
the application map covering threats of spam, phishing Deployment took place across the entire perimeter, there-
and fraud attempts. Thanks to this, all of Enel’s e-mail do- by providing complete coverage of the domains.
mains are configured to permit blocking e-mails with an
Collaborations with external Training
bodies and agencies and information
In line with the Open Power approach, we believe that The “Cyber Security Awareness Program” has become a
networking with external entities and organizations is a constant and ongoing initiative at Group level; it used to
key element in the cyber security strategy, to share best disseminate our cyber security culture and raise aware-
practices and operational models, develop and strengthen ness of threats and attacks that exploit the human vec-
information sharing channels, and help establish standards tor. This program contributes in fact to digitalization,
and regulations. In 2022, we provided feedback in public because it creates a culture of IT security, changes the
consultations to help draw up cyber security regulations, behavior of people in order to reduce the cyber risk, de-
including by drafting legislations, promoting a harmoniza- velops technical IT security skills and makes people the
tion of the current regulatory landscape in this area, and first line of company defense. It also uses various com-
implementing a risk-based approach and the principle of munication channels and dissemination tools, including
security by design. Collaborations carried out also aim to both communication campaigns as well as dedicated
construct more homogeneous structures for defining the training initiatives for clusters of people. Specifically, 19
taxonomy of security incidents, more organic criteria for knowledge sharing events were held in 2022 on a Global
their classification, as well as more harmonious notification level on the issues of cyber security and various initia-
procedures in European contexts. These collaborations are tives were held also on a local level. For example, within
also guided by a complex regulatory landscape in the cy- the scope of these initiatives, Policy no. 1097 “Rules of
ber security area, both in terms of an increase in standards Behavior for Digital People” was integrated with a quick
produced as well as in terms of complexity, mainly due to guide, available in all the main languages adopted in the
the new regulations that are added every year, in addition Group (5 different languages) targeted towards facilitat-
to the heterogeneity of requirements and the methods of ing a quick consultation of topics for directing the cor-
adoption. rect use of digital resources. Bulletins and news were also
In this sense, the process aimed at regulatory compliance created and disseminated through the company intranet
can have a strong impact both on company processes ad and documents were made available to stay always up to
well as on the technological infrastructure, requiring a ma- date on these issues. All of this was made possible also
jor effort in terms of management and monitoring. thanks to the awareness platform “TheRedPill”, the Group
Moreover, taking into account the context of regulatory platform through which training content and modules are
compliance, no cases of non-compliance with standards delivered in order to strengthen the IT security culture, al-
or cyber security regulations were detected in 2022. lowing the continuous improvement of training initiatives
In recent years, a solid network has been established and and the performance of simulated phishing campaigns.
developed by interacting with key stakeholders in the en- Its objective is to raise awareness of the main cyber secu-
ergy sector such as ANEEL (Agência Nacional de Energia rity issues, address any upskilling and reskilling needs and
Elétrica) and ONS (Operador Nacional do Sistema Elétri- teach how to defend against possible attacks. Four global
co) in Brazil and CNO (Consejo Nacional de Operación) in simulated phishing campaigns, a knowledge assessment
Colombia. We took part, for example, in the Confindustria and an awareness campaign were launched in 2021 – the
Digitale team, which aims to help develop the Italian digital year the platform was updated. During 2022, additional
ecosystem, we participated in the working groups of the initiatives were launched on a global level, such as the
World Economic Forum, and contributed in recent years dissemination of the “Antiphishing Kit” module, or the
to the publication of several reports including “Cyber Re- launch of the “People Cyber Empowerment Journey”, or
silience in the Electricity Ecosystem: Securing the Value the program that aims to make Enel people the first line
Chain” and “Cyber Resilience in the Electricity Industry: of IT defense. Furthermore, 6 simulated phishing cam-
Analysis and Recommendations on Regulatory Practices paigns, 3 awareness campaigns related to digital identi-
for the Public and Private Sectors”. ty protection, data and device protection, and 19 events
Furthermore, Enel X, Gridspertise and Enel Grids have targeted to disseminating the culture of IT security were
reached an important goal in the area of IT security by ob- designed and launched (so-called “knowledge sharing”).
taining ISO 27001 certification. This important result certi-
fies some processes that have an IT security management
system – policies, procedures and guidelines for providing
customers with trusted products and services.
In addition to the dissemination and communication ini- The Open Tech Journey project also continued to provide
tiatives, during 2022 the simulated phishing campaigns access to training courses focused on technological top-
targeted toward the entire Enel population continued, in ics, promoting internal skills to spread awareness of strate-
order to train employees to recognize malicious e-mails. gic topics and manage upskilling and reskilling needs. This
Following the results obtained by the phishing campaigns, was the background to the creation of the Cyber School,
specific initiatives were created to increase employee sen- which delivered seven courses on the main cyber security
sitivity and awareness (for example, specific infographics, topics. All the courses were engineered and made available
instructions and guidelines were shared with those who to the entire Enel population in e-learning mode, in order
were not able to recognize a phishing e-mail). to reach multi-specialistic skills in the various companies
of the Group.
Below the 2022 results related to the targets of the previous 2022-2024 Sustainability Plan, the resulting progress and the tar-
gets of the 2023-2025 Sustainability Plan, which may be redefi ned, added to, or surpassed with respect to the previous Plan.
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
Circularity improvement 56% 78% in 2025
8 I
92% in 2030
12 E
13
Economic CirculAbility (EBITDA/ N.A. N.A. x1.5 in 2025 compared to
8 I
resource consumption) the baseline year 2020
12 x2 in 2030 compared to the E
baseline year 2020
13
Valorization of obsolete spare part s, 22 million euros of revenues 53 million euros of revenues
7 I
equipment and scrap coming from generated by Reselling and generated from Reselling and
9 the demolition of thermal power Recycling activities Recycling activities in 2024(1) E
plants and promoting the adoption
12
of circular business models
13
eht
gnola
ytiralucriC
niahc
eulav
eritne
Circular economy
Material topics (I level) Plan SDG
• Innovation, circular
economy and digital
transformation
Double
materiality
Growth accelerators
•Circular economy
Read more
The Circularity improvement KPI measures the reduction in the consumption of fuel
and materials of the Group's power fl eet throughout their life cycle, compared to 2015.
The “Economic CirculAbility©” KPI considers the Group’s overall EBITDA (euros) and
compares it with the amount of resources consumed, both fuel and raw materials, by
the diff erent business activities (tons).
The target on the Valorization of obsolete of spare part s, equipment and scrap coming
from the demolition of thermal power plants involves the adoption of several initiatives,
including the Spare part s and equipment New Life project, which aims to give new life to
components in the warehouses, equipment of decommissioned coal-fi red power plants
and obsolete materials from all the other thermal power plants, allowing environmental
and economic benefi ts.
(1) Reselling and Recycling activities carried out on the basis of the progress of demolition work and scrap market value.
Goals Progress
I Industrial E Environmental S Social
G Governance T Technological New Redefi ned Outdated Not in line In line Achieved
N.A. = not applicable
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
Defi nition and application of suitable A new KPI Economic
12 I
industrial and fi nancial circularity CirculAbility© has been
metrics to support and enhance developed, measuring circularity E
circular economy activities, engaging at Group level by comparing
the respective business areas the value generated (€ EBITDA)
against the consumption of
resources (tons) needed to
generate it
The target is considered
outdated as it has been achieved
Strategic circular economy projects 13 projects
12 I
to reduce raw materials consumption Among the main initiatives
underway: E
•
new technologies for storage
(e.g. gravitational storage)
•
new materials for wind power
generation (e.g. wood-based
materials for towers) •
Wind New Life for wind turbine
blades
•
batt ery lifetime extension •
circular meter scale-up
The target is considered
outdated on the basis of a new
methodological approach(2)
Strengthening of part nerships 15 cities/public entities
12 E
and collaborations with cities and involved in part nerships and
17 other public entities (e.g. regions, collaborations in Argentina, G
metropolitan areas, etc.) on circular Chile, Italy, Spain, Nort h
economy America and Peru
The target is considered
outdated on the basis of a new
methodological approach(2)
Engagement of external actors to 2,000 external part icipants
12 I
promote the dissemination and engaged through webinars,
knowledge of the circular economy workshops and other events E
through physical/virt ual events on on circular economy
S
the topic, training activities and best
The target is considered
practice sharing
outdated on the basis of a new
methodological approach(2)
eht
gnola
ytiralucriC
niahc
eulav
eritne
(2) In our path to measure circularity at the aggregate Group level, the focus will be on measuring and identifying the overall impacts of circular activities with
respect to reducing resource consumption, with KPIs such as Economic CirculAbility.
Circular economy
Circular economy
3-3 301-2
For Enel, the circular economy is a strategic the generation and distribution of electricity,
lever to support the decarbonization both those at the end of their life and those
strategy and the path towards a fair in operation, thus embarking on a path to
and inclusive transition, with the aim of reduce the emissions associated with both
progressively applying it to the entire power generation from fossil fuels and the
business model in order to make it use of non-renewable materials.
increasingly sustainable, resilient and It is a circular model that allows us to limit
competitive. our dependence on raw materials as much
The achievement of increasingly ambitious as possible, while ensuring the following
decarbonization targets in fact requires types of competitiveness and sustainability:
•
a profound transformation of the energy environmental, by reducing the
system, while at the same time entailing a consumption of new resources and waste
growing need for raw materials with partly produced at the end of the cycle;
•
different requirements to those of the social, thanks to the rethinking of the
pre-existing energy system: to achieve the business model, based on the leveraging
IEA’s Net-Zero Emission (NZE) scenario, it is of products and services and as such
estimated that minerals will be extracted up more tied to specific and local skills and
to six times more by 2050 than today. professional resources and less tied to
In our energy transition process, we have automation;
•
from the outset adopted an integrated economic, thanks to the progressive re-
approach that includes, on the one hand, duction of procurement costs and the
the development of energy generation from definition of new product-as-a-service
renewable sources, and the consequent models, thus reducing procurement risks
abandonment of fossil fuels, and on the and related uncertainties related to supply
other hand, the adoption of a circular chains and external shocks.
approach in the management of assets for
56
%
CIRCULARITY
IMPROVEMENT
INDEX
Rethinking the raw materials cycle
for a fair transition
In 2020, Enel launched a working group involving all areas impacts related to materials and related technologies that
of the Company to develop and update the raw materials use them, as well as the definition of specific targets for
strategy, with particular reference to so-called critical raw each raw materials supply chain and related action plan,
materials,(1) identify priority areas on which to act and imple- leveraging the innovation ecosystem (co-innovation with
ment solutions to manage the associated impacts and risks. suppliers, start-ups, etc.), prioritization ranking of raw
In particular, the Working Group focuses on specific focus- materials and ad hoc plans for the most relevant ones,
es, starting with the identification of raw material require- geopolitical, commodities, environmental and social risk
ments for the Group’s various activities, the identification reduction strategies on new technologies and business
of environmental and social impacts along the entire val- models. All these focus areas are carried out by comparing
ue chain, with particular reference to respect for human and examining the best practices of each industrial sector,
rights, the assessment of geopolitical risks (with potential monitoring and analyzing the market trends associated
disruptions to supply chains) and economic risks. with raw materials for key technological sectors (wind, so-
The goal is the identification of priority areas of interven- lar, batteries, networks, etc.) and by collaborating regularly
tion in order to evaluate new solutions to mitigate risks and with all relevant stakeholders.
Enel’s circular approach
The Group’s circular vision is based on five pillars, which and its value at the end of its life; how the asset is used (cir-
define the reference business models for the entire life- cular use), which includes life extension, the use of sharing
cycle of our assets and materials, and which act through platforms, the product as a service; and closing cycles (val-
three main levers: circular design, starting with the choice ue recovery), through remanufacturing and recycling and
of input materials and design oriented towards life exten- reuse of recovered materials as a new circular input.
sion, up to the maximization of the use factor of the asset
(1) For example, according to the list in the “European Critical Raw Materials Act” 2023, raw materials such as lithium and phosphorus.
New life cycles Circular inputs
Any solution to preserve Production and use model
the value of an asset based on renewable inputs
cya ct
le
t h the
r
oen ud
g
ho f
re
a
u
l sif ee
,
CIRCUL
A
o anr dp r re ev ci yo cu ls
in
l gif )e
.
cycles (reuse
re rg ee cn ye cr lia nt gi to ,
h
n i en, u osp i tn hc e ey r rc g l pyin
i
lwg
la
i ro t shr
. UE
R E C O
VERY R
D E SI
G
L N
A
V
Shared platforms Useful life extension
Systems for joint Approach to the design and
management by management of an asset or
multiple users of CIRCULAR U S E product in order to extend its
products, goods or useful life, e.g. through modular
skills. design, facilitated reparability,
or predictive maintenance.
Product as
a service
Business model where the customer
purchases a service for a specifi c time,
while the company retains ownership
of the product, maximising its use
factor and useful life.
•
The implementation of the Group’s circular approach is collaboration: in order to implement a circular solution,
based on the following main aspects: collaboration both within one’s own sector, with suppli-
•
design and non-waste management: choices made at ers, customers and all players in the value chain, and with
the design stage strongly influence subsequent stages other sectors, as well as collaboration with the innova-
by enabling efficient management of the asset during tion ecosystem (start-ups, universities, etc.) and institu-
its useful life and maximizing its recoverable value at the tions, is crucial;
•
end of its life; innovation: innovation plays a fundamental role, not only
•
application in the core business: for change to be mean- technological innovation, but also innovation in business
ingful, it must first take place in the core businesses in models, regulations, and modes of collaboration, for the
order to make the Company circular; realization of a new economic model. Innovative mate-
•
economic sustainability: for solutions to be developed rials, artificial intelligence to enable predictive mainte-
on an industrial scale, they must also be economically nance and the use of additive manufacturing to repair
competitive; plant components are some of the technologies we are
•
measurement: only a quantitative approach linked to using to make our assets more circular. Start-ups, with
physical and economic indicators and challenging tar- their contribution of innovation and technology, play an
gets makes it possible to measure the effectiveness of indispensable driving role in the circular model (see the
the actions implemented and to guide business choices; chapter “Innovation”).
2 Bilancio di Sostenibilità 2022
Main circularity projects
We are developing several projects mainly related to new er generation and distribution plants or advanced repair
assets (wind, solar, BESS, and grid development) and up- technologies such as additive manufacturing.
•
coming products/services for end customers, with the aim Value recovery – identification of new life cycles
of reducing the consumption of raw materials, especially When an asset reaches the end of its useful life, the
critical ones. objective is to identify new life cycles through solutions
The initiatives focus on three of the five pillars of the model: that maximize the amount of recoverable materials in
•
Circular design – use of circular inputs order to reinsert them into the production cycle. All the
Several solutions to reduce raw material consumption Group’s different Business Lines are actively involved in
use circular inputs i.e., from previous life cycles (use of major asset recycling projects: from PV with the Photo-
recycled plastic for smart meters and charging infra- rama project, which aims to recycle 95% of materials, to
structure for electric vehicles or recycled aluminum sale for scrap metal recovery, to the recycling of pow-
for street lighting systems) or by identifying new solu- er line poles, reusing the recovered material for new
tions that use alternative and more sustainable mate- poles, to the construction in Spain of a battery recycling
rials (wooden towers for wind turbines, innovative wind plant with a target capacity of 8.000 tons/year, up to a
blades made of fabric, or hybrid towers in which the base circular management of the Group’s decommissioned
and first sections are replaced by a concrete pedestal IT assets by giving them to employees, selling them to
that will be made directly on site, significantly reducing third parties or donating them for social purposes (see
the use of steel). Another project in this sense is the the chapter “Digitalization”). In addition, we are evaluat-
partnership with Vulcan Energy to develop projects for ing new models for the enhancement of secondary raw
geothermal lithium extraction. materials: for example, in Spain we are testing collabora-
•
Circular use – useful life extension tion with plants authorized to process and recover scrap
Reducing the need for new assets also reduces the metal, in order to obtain secondary raw materials to be
associated material requirements. Among the various fed into new production cycles.
initiatives implemented are the application of machine
learning techniques for predictive maintenance in pow- Here are some examples of projects implemented:
Storage Wind Solar Grid Customer solutions Cross
Wind tower with Circular Smart
Geothermal lithium Solar panels with Recycled plastic for EV Materials
wooden materials Meter with
(Vulcan Energy) recycled plastic charging stations passport
(3SUN) recycled plastic
BESS – New
Textile materials Cell with copper
Circular technologies for Recycled aluminum for Sustainability K
for wind turbine replacing the silver inputs storage Thermal public lighting systems for procurement
blades (3SUN)
Energy Storage
New storage
technologies for Hybrid wind towers Redesign of grid
storage: gravitational asset
storage
2nd life Batt ery Melilla Predictive
(Spain) maintenance
Repair through
Useful life Project PIONEER
additive
extension (Italy)
manufacturing
Predicting failures
software (IPCEI)
Wind turbine Solar panel EV batt eries Sale of natural
blades recycling recycling Grid mining
recycling gas
(Wind New Life) (Photorama)
New life
New models for
cycles
the enhancement
of secondary raw
materials from
scrap metal
NGISED
RALUCRIC
ESU
RALUCRIC
YREVOCER
EULAV
Circular procurement Circular
inputs
Enel’s Circular Procurement strategy aims to improve the creasingly circular products. In addition, the Enel Group is
circularity of purchased products and services through the developing tools and strategies to improve the tracking of
definition of metrics (such as the EPD system, Environmen- materials along the value chain and to push suppliers to
tal Product Declaration) to assess the whole-life environ- make efficient use of materials by focusing on recycling
mental impacts related to the material and energy flows and recovery at the end of life and to increase transpar-
of the strategic product categories purchased, co-inno- ency. See the chapter “Sustainable supply chain” for more
vation with suppliers, and the use of tender requirements details.
and rewarding factors to incentivize suppliers to offer in-
Technological innovation in solar panel production (3SUN) Circular
inputs
The new HJT (Hetero Junction Technology) solar module
that will be produced in 2024 in the 3SUN Gigafactory in
Catania, Italy, is a latest-generation double-sided photo-
voltaic module that guarantees less degradation of photo-
voltaic modules and extends their service life to more than
30 years. Due to its high efficiency (around 24%) resulting
from the possibility of using larger and thinner wafers, it
will already use a reduced amount of silicon for peak pow-
er. In addition, as a further evolution, a new HJT Tandem
panel is being developed that will significantly exceed the
state of the art in photovoltaic cells in terms of efficiency,
reaching more than 30%; this will increase the efficiency
of a conventional module by 15-20% and allow more en-
ergy to be generated, with the same number of modules
installed, thus requiring less material such as polysilicon.
In addition, technologies are being developed to introduce
recycled materials into the production process (such as
replacing panel glass with recycled plastic) and the possi-
bility of replacing the silver (a material with a high environ-
mental impact used in the metallization process of the cell)
with copper is being evaluated.
Andrea Tecci
Ecosystem and Circular Economy CC - EGP&TGx
“At 3SUN we are working to increasingly improve the
circularity of the PV module and minimize the consumption
of raw materials, working on its entire life cycle: using
circular materials, improving its productivity, extending its
service life and finally maximizing the quantity of material
that can be recovered at the end of its service life. The
aim of all of this is to make this technology increasingly
sustainable and competitive.”
BESS – New technologies for storage Circular
inputs
Again with the aim of promoting the development of new,
more sustainable materials and processes, a first innova-
tive commercial alternative to chemical storage based on
gravity technology will be installed. The plant will be com-
missioned in the United States in 2024. Specifically, the
storage system will use excess electricity from the grid to
move large blocks of cement material.
Another alternative solution that Enel installed in Italy at
the end of 2022 is Thermal Energy Storage (TES) based
on solid material and using rocks with high thermal capac-
ity to retain thermal energy from the process fluid. Using
common fragmented rocks, the TES system has the ca-
pacity to store up to 24 MWh of clean heat at a tempera-
ture of around 500 °C for at least 5 hours.
All materials used (rocks, pipes and casings) are to be con-
sidered environmentally sustainable as there are no chem-
ical compounds or critical or flammable materials.
Redesign of grid asset Circular
inputs
Several initiatives are underway within Enel Grids, which were launched in 2022 to gather a new concept for the
also leverage an innovation ecosystem to improve the cir- design of primary and secondary substations to promote
cularity of different assets through design and the use of their harmonious landscaping, the adoption of circular
new materials. solutions in terms of both the materials used and the
The search for solutions with a lower environmental impact sharing of space with the community.
for distribution poles has also led Enel Grids to explore al-
ternative materials to conventional ones; in addition to the Circular Smart Meter – Closed loop recycling
use of recycled aggregates for the manufacture of new From 2020, production of the new Circular Smart Meter
poles, an analysis is underway for the use of wood poles began through a circular model and a pathway to redesign
free of toxic impregnating agents with a design oriented the value chain of the electronic meter, using material from
towards total recyclability at the end of their life. Alternative discarded meters to make the new ones. About 2 million
solutions to conventional construction methods are also circular meters were produced in 2022. 48% by weight of
being tested, with 3D printing and for pile foundations, in the new meters are reclaimed materials: end-of-life recy-
order to reduce installation times and material consump- clability (plastic, steel and other metals) is estimated at 79%
tion (see the chapter “Innovation”). by weight. Over its lifetime (15 years), each circular smart
Also thanks to the Open Innovability® platform, challenges meter saves 7 kg of CO and 1.1 kg of virgin material.
2
Circular EV charging stations Circular Extending
inputs useful life
We have been working for several years on the products in installed in 2022 alone amounted to 3,000 new points. The
the Enel X Way portfolio by revising their design to improve use of materials was also optimized, reducing the overall
their circularity. In fact, our main AC (alternating current) weight of the product by around 32%. Another example of
charging products use recycled polycarbonate as their a circular solution we have implemented is the recovery
main structural material (100% for JuiceBoxes and 75% for through remanufacturing of end-of-life components to
JuicePoles). For the JuicePole, AC public charging stations be reused as spare parts.
Useful life extension of batteries Extending
useful life
Enel is developing several solutions to extend the life of ies from the automotive sector is to reuse them “second
batteries, including the development by Enel X Enel X in life” solutions such as stationary storage systems.. Enel has
the framework of an IPCEI project for artificial intelligence developed a first solution of this type in Melilla (4 MW/1.7
tools for predicting failures, anomalies and for modelling MWh storage plant), realized through the reuse of about
the degradation of lithium-ion batteries in order to extend 90 batteries, and is completing another one with a nomi-
their life and increase their reliability, optimizing operating nal capacity of 2.5/10 MWh as part of the PIONEER (airPort
and maintenance activity (project completion expected sustaInability secONd lifE battEry stoRage) project with
by 2023). A further strategy to extend the life of batter- Aeroporti di Roma.
“Wind New Life” project New life
cycles
The project proposes to develop a circular value chain to man-
age the end-of-life of wind turbine blades, through the devel-
opment of two plants in Italy and Spain that will provide for the
collection of the blades, their processing for production
of second raw material and the reuse of the same for the
production of high value-added components (building ma-
terials, sanitary and furnishing products, flooring, cabinets
and electrical conduits). The Spanish plant, operational from
2025, will handle around 8,000 tons of material per year. In
Italy, the aim is to manage around 3,000 of them by the sec-
ond half of 2025.
Grid Mining New life
cycles
With the aim of maximizing the contribution to decarbon- rial”. Having an integrated and digitalized tracking system
ization along the entire value chain, a Grid Mining & Zero along the entire value chain is the driving force toward the
Waste model has also been defined, which, by considering ambition to open our “mine” to the outside world as well,
grid assets as a mine to be drawn from at the end of life, al- making it available to other companies or different sectors
lows the recovery and market leveraging of precious met- in order to involve their respective production chains and
als and other materials and devices from obsolete distri- feed new markets for raw and secondary materials, pro-
bution infrastructures. In this regard, to ensure a complete moting the development of the area and the saving of vir-
tracking of the materials contained in the network assets gin materials, and creating new job opportunities related
from the input phase of the value chain, we have devel- to waste material recovery initiatives while minimizing en-
oped and digitalized in our systems the “Digital Product vironmental impacts.
Passport” (DPP) that allows us to have a clear and detailed
picture of the different types and quantities of materials in The recycling of photovoltaic panels (PV Recycling)
use. The DPP allows not only for monitoring any materials As far as the end-of-life recovery of photovoltaic panels is
considered critical, for which it might be useful to evaluate concerned, Enel is collaborating in the Photorama project
an alternative, but also for defining ex ante end-of-life re- (European Horizon 2020 program), which aims to auto-
use assumptions. In this regard, the End of Life Dashboard mate the process of dismantling solar panels and to iden-
was developed as part of the Grid Mining strategy. Starting tify a handling process suitable for the recovery of valuable
with reverse logistics information on the type and num- materials (purity greater than 99.9%), reaching a recycling
ber of decommissioned grid assets, in close connection rate of 95%. This solution will improve the recovery process
with the DPP, it gives us information on the decommis- in terms of both recoverable quantity and quality of the
sioned materials, their quantity and type, and the possible recovered material.
CO savings related to their reuse as “second raw mate-
2
Circular cities and territories
Cities generate around 70% of global CO emissions, ac- pedestrianization, public and private electrification and
2
counting for over 60% of resource use and produce 50% promotion of flexible working models. For construction,
of global waste. Numbers are destined to grow, according the focus is on the development of fuel-efficient solutions
to city population estimates. It is also necessary to maxi- and the use of materials that emit less CO . Enel has con-
2
mize the effectiveness of interventions in the main areas tributed to the development of this theme at the level of
of urban life, prioritizing each sector: renewable energy, both vision and definition(2) and business solutions.
Declaration of the Circular Cities
of Latin America and the Caribbean
In October 2021, the “Declaration of Circular Cities of Latin of a common vision, clear objectives and the sharing of
America and the Caribbean” was launched at the Italy-Lat- best practices, aims to stimulate the adhesion of cities that
in America and Caribbean Conference, during the event desire to accelerate the transition towards a circular and
organized by Enel on Circular Cities. The initiative, realized more sustainable urban model. At present, the Declaration
by CEPAL (Economic Commission for Latin America and has already been signed by 8 cities on the Latin American
the Caribbean) and IILA (International Italo-Latin American continent (including Buenos Aires, Bogotà, Mexico City,
Organization) with the aim of accelerating the develop- Lima, Santiago) enhancing the centrality of the circular ap-
ment of the topic in Latin America through the definition proach in local development policies.
Sustainable
recovery at the end of life. The José Granda Primary Cabin
infrastructure in Lima, Peru, is one of the first construction sites where
the “Sustainable by Design” approach was adopted. For its
In the grids sector, Enel has adopted a “Sustainable implementation, several circular solutions were adopted to
by design” model: designing an asset with sustainable minimize waste and maximize material recovery: 930m3
materials, minimizing emissions and consumption during of soil was reused and 520m3 of demolition residues
construction, and favoring life extension, without excluding recycled.
“Eco Enel – Brasile”
The Eco Enel project, launched in 2007, favors discounts
on the electricity bill for customers who sort their waste
and send it to specific collection and recycling points.
The initiative was started in the State of Ceará and later
extended to the States of Rio de Janeiro, Goiás and São
Paulo. In 2015, it was included in the United Nations
Development program (UNDP) report “Inclusive Markets
in Brazil: Challenges and Opportunities of the Business
Ecosystem” as one of the country’s 19 best practices. To
date, the program has collected over 70,000 tons of waste
and benefited around 300,000 customers annually.
(2) Enel has published four papers on the topic of circular cities, helping to develop the concept and addressing issues such as strategy development, reference
models and governance. Below is the link to the latest edition: https://www.enel.com/content/dam/enel-com/documenti/media/circular-cities_october2021.pdf.
PPE recycling
colleagues started in Italy in 2022. The material collected
will be used for the manufacture of sound-absorbing
The first phase of a project to provide a more circular end- panels and anti-trauma floors for use in our Operational
of-life for the Personal Protective Equipment of our Training Centers, but also in city playgrounds.
Governance, metrics and targets of the circular economy
To ensure the implementation of the strategy and the to use the circular economy not only as a business theme
organic nature of the circular transition, specific units but also as a model for fostering local development.
have been created in Enel to support the Group’s circu- In conjunction with the launch of its Circular Economy
lar economy model. In particular, these areas are present activities in 2015, Enel placed strong emphasis on mea-
in both the different Business Lines and in the differ- suring circularity. In the early stages, and in the absence
ent countries and regions, under the coordination of a of international reference methodologies covering the
Holding unit, so as to ensure a coordinated approach to entire value chain, the Company developed its own cir-
strategies, share knowledge and experience, and foster cularity measurement model, the CirculAbility Model©.
the integration of circular economy principles into daily Based on the five pillars of the circular economy, this
choices and activities. In particular, the Business Lines are model represents the Group’s vision on the subject mat-
redesigning or developing business models with a circu- ter, as it considers materials and energy in an integrat-
lar approach, while the units at country level are providing ed manner throughout all phases of the life of the asset.
support locally to create new business opportunities and From this model, which represents the Group’s concep-
related sustainability initiatives in collaboration with the tual framework, various indicators and applications have
local ecosystem. Over the past year, the circular economy subsequently been developed in the various divisions,
has been integrated with that of sustainability initiatives in starting with supplier management and concluding with
order to ensure its strong synergy social issues as well as end customers.
Measuring the circularity of
as production inputs, design, procurement, corporate
products for our customers approach to the circular economy, etc.
Circular CertificationTM – Product (under accreditation):
At Enel X, two different tools for measuring the circularity developed by Enel X and ICMQ SpA to measure the level
of customers have been developed to support them on of product circularity.(3) It is based on the quantification of
a path to improvement: the Circular Economy Product the circularity of material and energy contributions to the
Score, to measure the circularity of products in the manufacture of products.
portfolio, and the Circular Economy Report, to measure Circular CertificationTM – Energy Site (accredited in
the circularity of customer products or sites at corporate 2022): consists of a quantitative analysis applied to a
level. The metrics adopted were reviewed and improved specific customer site (such as offices, warehouse, etc.)
with the support of various partners such as ICMQ analyzing electrical and thermal energy sources, in terms
and CESI to develop certification schemes subject to of consumption and generation, energy use efficiency,
accreditation by Accredia: energy management practices, etc.
Circular CertificationTM – Corporate (accredited in To maximize the spread of these certifications, in
2022): consists of the analysis of the qualitative level of December 2021 Enel X founded the CircularEvolution
maturity and diffusion of circular economy principles in association with ICMQ and CESI, with the aim of
the corporate sphere, along the entire value chain, e.g. supporting the most virtuous organizations in
by assessing the circularity of various elements, such implementing circular models.
(3) The scheme refers to the International Standards ISO 14040 and ISO 14044 that describe how to apply life cycle analysis to products and services (Life Cycle
Assessment or LCA).
Enel has always been among the pioneering companies eration activities that measures the consumption of raw
when it comes to identifying and adopting quantitative in- materials throughout the life of power plants, in relation
dicators at the Group level, indicators that can clearly rep- to the energy generated. With respect to this KPI, Enel
resent the transition process towards circularity in terms is committed to a significant reduction in resource con-
of decoupling its business activities and related resource sumption with the goal of improving its circularity by 92%
consumption. On Capital Markets Day in 2020, Enel made by 2030 compared to 2015.
public for the first time a KPI related to its electricity gen-
Enel - first Company in the world
consumed, both fuel and raw materials, throughout the
to launch a circularity index value chain by the different business activities (expressed
in tons). Enel presented this new KPI as part of the World
with the aim of doubling it
Economic Forum 2023 in Davos, while committing to
by 2030 doubling this index by 2030 compared to 2020, thus
halving the amount of resources consumed compared to
EBITDA generated. Enel thus becomes the first Company
We have developed a new indicator, the “Economic in the world to adopt such a circularity indicator, and to
CirculAbility©”, which takes the Group’s overall EBITDA set itself such an ambitious goal.
(in euros) and compares it with the amount of resources
The ecosystem of circularity: the development of a “circular” culture
and new ways of collaboration
As part of our focus on the circular economy, in addition formulate regulatory proposals in different countries that
to business-related activities, we also focused on dissem- could promote the development of the circular economy.
ination and knowledge, organizing specific webinars (5 in The redesign of the economic model requires broad and
all) on the circular economy in 2022, each focusing on a deep change and continuous engagement with stake-
different aspect such as the energy transition, new tech- holders, through the creation of an extended ecosystem
nologies and decarbonization, social impacts, biodiver- (suppliers, customers, institutions, etc.) that is not limited
sity and communication. The sessions were attended by to one’s own specific sector, but progressively includes
institutions and organizations strongly committed to the counterparts from new sectors and areas with which syn-
circular economy and there were over 1,500 internal and ergies can be developed.
external participants.
The full development of a circular business also requires Also crucial is the development and sharing of knowledge
a rethinking of the ways in which it relates to the outside and experience through as wide a network as possible,
world, with a reassessment of the usual negotiation and since the circular economy is a fundamentally new topic
contractual models and some of the individuals typical of a with vast unexplored potential.
legal system hitherto dependent on an economically linear To this end, Enel is part of a number of networks to which it
world. With the aim of identifying regulatory or negotiated actively contributes, including the European Raw Material
barriers to the circularity of the Group’s activities, in 2021, Alliance (ERMA), the European Battery Alliance, the Global
and in conjunction with the legal and regulatory functions, Battery Alliance, the Global Alliance for Sustainable Ener-
a careful analysis of regulations and contracts was under- gy, Open Power Grids, the Capital Equipment Coalition,
taken to identify innovative contractual solutions and stan- the Alliance for the Circular Economy and the Coalición de
dards to support circular business models and possibly Economía Circular de América Latina y el Caribe.
Alliance for
Maire Tecnimont, Salvatore Ferragamo and Touring Club.
the Circular Economy During 2022, the Alliance published two guidelines
documents on circular declarations and disclosures
and on circular procurement. The first document
The Alliance for the Circular Economy is the joint initiative developed a vademecum for the implementation of
of 12 Italian companies who aim to promote circularity communication policies that adhere to the principles
in business strategies. The Alliance was established in shared by the companies in the Alliance. The document
2017 with the signing of the Manifesto by “Made in Italy” includes a common definition of circular economy and
companies, leaders in various manufacturing sectors. a set of key principles that companies must consider
The Alliance intends to spearhead an overall evolution when making circular statements and disclosures. The
of the manufacturing context in a circular perspective second document includes a set of criteria and tools
that enhances the peculiarities of products “Made aimed at including circularity criteria in procurement
in Italy”, focusing on innovation, favoring the sharing processes, a theoretical and organizational framework
of experiences and best practices and promoting a for implementing circular procurement processes, and a
constant comparison with the entire ecosystem of common questionnaire for supplier engagement.
stakeholders. The companies participating in the Alliance The incorporation of these principles and criteria into the
are interpreters of a transformative economy, of an activities of the Alliance companies is intended to lead to
innovative way of rethinking the entire production cycle, a more coherent implementation of the circular economy
the use of resources and business models. The following concept in the Italian business context, and may also set
are members of the Alliance: A2A, Aquafil, Cassa Depositi an example for small and medium-sized companies that
e Prestiti, CIRFOOD, Costa Crociere, Enel, Gruppo Hera, wish to adopt them.
Intesa Sanpaolo, Gruppo Ferrovie dello Stato, Gruppo
Below the 2022 results related to the targets of the previous 2022-2024 Sustainability Plan, the resulting progress and the tar-
gets of the 2023-2025 Sustainability Plan, which may be redefi ned, added to, or surpassed with respect to the previous Plan.
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
•
Reduction of specifi c SO emissions(1) -78% vs 2017 -81% in 2025 compared to
12 2 E
2017
•
-85% in 2030 compared to 2017
•
Reduction of specifi c NO emissions(1) -47% vs 2017 -47% in 2025 compared to
12 x E
2017
•
-70% in 2030 compared to 2017
•
Reduction of specifi c dust emissions(1) -54% vs 2017 -54% in 2025 compared to
12 E
2017
•
-60% in 2030 compared to 2017
•
Reduction of specifi c freshwater -49% vs 2017 N.A. -56% in 2025 compared to
6 E
withdrawal(1) 2017
12 •
-65% in 2030 compared to 2017
Reduction of specifi c water -47% vs 2017
6
requirement
Target outdated as a new
12
target on specifi c freshwater
withdrawal has been defi ned
Reduction of waste products(1) -49% vs 2017 -55% in 2030 compared to 2017
12 E
Overcompliance on waste N.A. N.A. Promoting and disseminating
12 E
management and end-of-life good practices on waste
management and end-of-life
“ZERO Plastic” project - Reduction Reducing single-use plastics Reduction of single-use plastics
12 E
of single-use plastics at Enel Group (offi ce scope), compared to the (offi ce scope), compared to
sites new structure imposed by the new structure imposed by the
pandemic, in the main countries pandemic
of operation
• •
Enel sites in Italy(2): -85% Enel sites in Italy(2): -85% in 2025
• •
Enel sites in Spain: -85% Enel sites in Spain: -85% in 2025
retaW
etsaW
snoissimE
tnemeganam
tnemeganam
Conservation of natural capital
Material topics (I level) Plan SDG
• Conservation of
ecosystems and
environmental
Double management
materiality
Nature
(1) The values of the 2022 results, targets and 2017 baseline have been recalculated net of assets disposed as at December 31, 2022.
(2) Compared to the volume of single-use plastics used in 2018. Reduction calculated based on offi ce occupancy and pandemic contingencies.
Does not include offi ces with fewer than 20 employees.
Goals Progress
I Industrial E Environmental S Social
G Governance T Technological New Redefi ned Outdated Not in line In line Achieved
N.A. = not applicable
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
• •
Biodiversity conservation Defi nition of a Group protocol Beginning No Net Loss
14 I
to verify the target on No Net implementation on selected
15 Loss for new projects and projects in high import ance E
applications on pilot projects biodiversity areas start ing from
• 2025
Defi nition of a catalog of
•
Nature Based Solutions for No Net Loss of biodiversity for
urban biodiversity projects new infrastructure by 2030
and applications •
No Net Deforestation by 2030
•
No Go in UNESCO areas(3)
•
Minimizing the impact of Enel Nature-related risk/opport unity
E
assets on habitats and species analysis: incorporate the
included on the Red List of assessment of nature-related risks G
the International Union for and opport unities into all business
Conservation of Nature (IUCN): activities to align the strategy and
•
improvement of company risk management processes
processes for risk assessment •
Nature’s Footprint - Assessment
and biodiversity management
metrics and restoration plan:
on plants and assets (100%
assessment of 100% relevant
annual progress)
assets and revision of nature's
– Group Biodiversity
restoration Plan on infrastructure
Guidelines implemented by
•
Enel Grids and Enel X. Biodiversity value awareness
– high level risk and and new part nerships: broaden
opport unity analisys at and consolidate global and
Group level local scientifi c and industrial
• part nership to support the
defi nition of Group indicators
nature positive approach and its
and implementation of the
implementation
biodiversity perf ormance
monitoring process:
– 100% revised KPIs
•
internal biodiversity
protection awareness
initiatives to reach 100%
of the Enel population and
increase the part nership
framework and stakeholder
engagement:
– awareness campaign via
webinars and videos to all
Enel people; 60 global and
local part nerships, including
TNFD, Science Based
Target Network, Business
for Nature, membership of
CSR Europe's Biodiversity &
Industry platform, WBCSD,
TNF, World Economic
Forum, Legambiente
Environment Extra Checking on Site 93 Environment ECoS carried 72 Environment ECoS in 2025
14 E
(ECoS) out
15 S
Environment Contractor Assessment 300 Environment
14 E
(CA) Contractor Assessments
15 carried out S
Target outdated as the
Contractor Assessment process
is an established operational
practice on the whole perimeter
(3) In any case, Enel commits to comply to service obligation with the best adequate and feasible solutions.
latnemnorivnE
ytisrevidoiB
ecnanrevog
Conservation
of natural capital
THE GIAL
0.07
g/kWh
SPECIFIC
EMISSIONS OF SO Natural capital conservation
2
0.07 g/kWh
in 2021
Protecting natural capital and combating planet and restoring 30% of degraded
0.32 climate change are strategic factors and ecosystems by 2030. Enel actively
g/kWh
integrated into the planning, operation and participated in the COP 15 business forums
SPECIFIC
development of our activities. Being an and supported the approval of the target
EMISSIONS OF NO
X energy company, our operations depend on to require large companies to assess and
0.35 g/kWh
natural resources, but at the same time they report on risks, dependencies and impacts
in 2021
have an impact on them. For this reason, we on biodiversity.
-8.6% integrate risk and opportunity assessments At European level, the Commission published
into our decision-making processes and our the Biodiversity Strategy in 2020,(1) which
Group governance, and we define specific involves the introduction of a series of
0.005
g/kWh targets for reducing impacts on nature, targets that are binding on Member States;
SPECIFIC restoring habitats and sharing the benefits subsequently in 2022, the consultation on
EMISSIONS of ecosystem services with the communities the proposed Nature Restoration Law was
OF DUST with which we interact. launched. The proposal aims to introduce
0.005 g/kWh Recent years have marked a significant area-based restoration measures for at least
in 2021 increase in global awareness of the need 20% of the EU’s land and sea area by 2030,
to strengthen the commitment to not only and all ecosystems in need of restoration
0.23
l/kWh limiting climate change, but also tackling by 2050, requiring Member States to
eq
the loss of biodiversity and defining a formulate specific national plans. The
TOTAL SPECIFIC
FRESHWATER process for restoring it. This commitment proposal also includes specific objectives for
WITHDRAWAL was relaunched by the UN Convention on urban ecosystems, agricultural and forest
0.25 l/kWh Biological Diversity (CBD), held at COP ecosystems. Enel is actively supporting
eq
in 2021 15 in December in Montreal, Canada. The the Commission’s activities, promoting
conference resulted in the release of the the synergy between the restoration of
-8.0%
Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity degraded areas and the development of
Framework, which defines strategic renewable energies, as well as stimulating
200 objectives for reducing biodiversity loss, the participation of stakeholders. We have
restoring ecosystems and protecting the also proactively integrated EU principles
BIODIVERSITY
rights of indigenous peoples and local into our Environmental(2) and Biodiversity(3)
PROJECTS IN
communities. The plan includes concrete Policies in order to continuously improve the
OPERATIONAL
SITES measures to halt and reverse the loss of management of our assets and services.
nature, including protecting 30% of the
183 projects
in 2021
+9.3%
9,452 (1) COMM (2020) 380 Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Econom-
ha ic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
(2) Enel has had a Group environmental policy in place since 1996, updated in 2018 and again in 2022. The Enel Group’s
OF HABITAT
environmental policy covers the entire value chain, applying to: (i) all the production phases of every product and service,
RESTORED including distribution and logistics phases, as well as the management of related waste; (ii) each site and building; (iii) all
relationships with external stakeholders; (iv) all mergers and acquisitions; (v) every key business partner (including partners
9,092 ha in 2021 related to non-managed operations, joint ventures, outsourcing or third-party producers); (vi) every supplier, including
service and contractor suppliers; (vii) all due diligence and Merger&Acquisition processes.
+3.9% (3) In 2015, Enel published the Group’s biodiversity policy, which was updated in 2023 following the release of the Kun-
ming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework.
•
During 2022, the European Commission proceeded to Soil strategy – In November 2021, the Commission
adopt the action plan towards zero pollution for air, water launched an EU soil strategy for 2030, which sets out
and soil (“Towards a Zero Pollution Ambition for air, wa- measures to restore degraded soils by 2050, setting me-
ter and soil – building a Healthier Planet for Healthy Peo- dium- and long-term objectives for 2030 and 2050 re-
ple”(4)). The main lines of action include: spectively. The strategy is directly linked to that of biodi-
•
Air quality – In 2022, the Commission launched the pro- versity and climate adaptation, also establishing targets
posal to revise the directives on ambient air quality, with relating to the restoration of degraded land, the remedi-
the aim of improving alignment between EU air quality ation of contaminated sites and the reduction of soil use.
standards and the new guidelines of the WHO (World In this context, Enel is supporting the proposed strategy,
Health Organization), with particular attention to urban by promoting a circular approach to land management,
areas, where the majority of the population lives. Enel in particular through the reuse and redevelopment of
actively participates in the review process by promoting brownfield sites, as well as the repowering and lifetime
the adoption of zero-emission technologies that gen- extension of wind farms, in order to limit the use of soil.
erate benefits both globally, in terms of GHG reduction, Also, through the Futur-e project, Enel is actively pursu-
and locally, in terms of reducing atmospheric pollution. ing the reuse of areas within its industrial scope. Enel’s
•
Industrial emissions – As regards industrial pollution Futur-e project is one of the first examples on a glob-
of air, water and soil, a proposal to revise the Industrial al scale of the redevelopment of abandoned industrial
Emissions Directive was published in 2022. Enel sup- sites of different sizes and in different contexts, turn-
ports the review process, in particular for large com- ing them into a development opportunity for the local
bustion plants, by committing over the years to the pro- area and for the Country system. Futur-e aims to adopt
gressive adaptation of power plants powered by fossil a circular economy approach by converting abandoned
fuels thanks to the introduction of technologies with low industrial sites into eco-sustainable places dedicated to
emissions of polluting substances. Furthermore, Enel science, art, culture, tourism, or new industrial activities
actively supports the development of new technologies, (see the chapter “Our commitment to a just transition:
such as electrification based on renewable energy, to leaving no one behind”).
support other sectors and uses of energy, such as the Enel supports this process through participation with Eu-
transport sector or heating and cooling in buildings. relectric on the Zero Pollution Stakeholder Platform.
Commitment to nature conservation
by partnering with associations and organizations
for sustainable development
The growing and renewed attention to nature and its eco- to support the “Make it Mandatory” campaign, which
systems has led to the emergence of new coalitions and makes it mandatory for large companies and financial
multilateral initiatives to stimulate the definition of res- institutions to assess and report risks, dependencies
toration targets and the development of more ambitious and impacts on biodiversity by 2030; participation in the
policies to preserve biodiversity. Within this context, Enel multistakeholder dialogue promoted by the World Busi-
is actively committed to this process, collaborating with ness Council For Sustainable Development (WBCSD)
the most relevant global stakeholders and participating in in 2022 for the definition of the “Roadmap to Nature
multilateral initiatives and dialogues. In particular, the main Positive”, specifically for the part relating to the energy
activities undertaken in 2022 included: sector, which will provide companies with a framework
•
partnership with Business for Nature, launched in 2020 of action on nature, supporting them with the definition
with the signing of the call-to-action “Nature is Every- of targets, as well as with measurement and reporting
one’s Business”, with whose business delegation Enel activities aligned with the implementation of the Global
took part in the pre-COP 15 negotiations in Geneva, in Biodiversity Framework;
•
March 2022. Furthermore, in October 2022, Enel was the partnership with the Taskforce on Nature-related
among the first companies to sign the Business State- Financial Disclosure (TNFD) through participation in the
ment for Mandatory Assessment and Disclosure, and Forum, launched in 2021, which is working to establish,
(4) COM (2021) 400 final: Communication Pathway to a Healthy Planet for All – EU Action Plan: ‘Towards Zero Pollution for Air, Water and Soil’.
by 2023, a global framework for companies and finan- use and built environment;
•
cial institutions to assess and report on nature- and ongoing support given to the Science Based Targets
biodiversity-related risks and opportunities. Connect- Network (SBTN), a project that, on the trail of the Sci-
ed to this, in October 2022 Enel joined the TNFD Pilot ence Based Targets initiative (SBTi) in the area of climate,
Program led by the WBCSD, which brings together 23 will define specific new improvement targets and objec-
companies globally to test the new framework. These tives for nature and biodiversity conservation.
companies are divided into three groups: energy, land
Environmental governance and management model
2-9 2-12 2-13 2-24 3-3
Enel’s organizational and corporate governance model en- advise, in order to ensure an adequate internal division of
sures that sustainability issues are appropriately taken into its functions, as well as a related parties committee. During
consideration in all relevant company decision-making 2022, the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Com-
processes, by defining specific tasks and responsibilities mittee dealt with nature-related issues, reflected in the
for the main corporate governance bodies. strategies and related implementation methods in 2 of the
The Board of Directors plays a central role in corporate 6 meetings held, in particular during the review of: (i) the
governance as the body vested with powers related to the Sustainability Report for the 2021 financial year, coinciding
strategic, organizational and control policies of the Com- with the Consolidated Non-Financial Statement pursuant
pany and Group. In this context, it takes into account the to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 for the same year; (ii)
need to pursue sustainable success, particularly: (i) when the materiality analysis and the guidelines of the Sustain-
defining Company and Group strategies; (ii) when drawing ability Plan 2023-2025, including environmental objectives;
up the remuneration policy for the Chief Executive Officer/ (iii) updates on the main activities carried out in 2022 by
General Manager and Key Management Personnel, defin- the Enel Group in the field of sustainability, on the status of
ing specific sustainability objectives the achievement of implementation of the Sustainability Plan 2022-2024 and
which is linked to a significant component of the variable regarding Enel’s inclusion in the main sustainability indices.
pay; and (iii) with regard to the Company’s Internal Control For more information on the activities carried out by the
and Risk Management System (“SCIGR”), aimed at the ef- corporate bodies, please refer to the Enel Report on Cor-
fective and efficient identification, measurement, manage- porate Governance and Ownership Structure, available at
ment and monitoring of the main corporate risks, includ- www.enel.com, governance section, as well as the chapter
ing those of an ESG nature. on “Climate governance” in this document.
The Board of Directors has also established internal board The Board of Directors approves the Sustainability Report
committees with the power to investigate, propose and which also contains the Group’s environmental policy.
Environmental policy
G4-DMA EN
Strategic factors in the planning, implementation and development of Enel’s operations include protecting the
environment and natural resources, tackling climate change, and contributing towards sustainable economic
development. These are also key factors in consolidating the Company’s position as leader in the energy mar-
ket. Enel has had a Group environmental policy in place since 1996, based on four fundamental principles:
1. protecting the environment by preventing impacts and exploiting opportunities;
2. improving and promoting the environmental sustainability of products and services;
3. creating shared value for the Company and stakeholders;
4. meeting legal compliance obligations and voluntary commitments, advancing ambitious environmental
management practices
and pursuing ten strategic goals:
1 To apply internationally recognized Environmental Management Systems to the whole organization, under-
pinned by the principle of ongoing improvement and adoption of environmental indices to measure the envi-
ronmental performance of the whole organization.
a. Ensuring annual compliance with ISO certifications 14001 extension to the entire scope of the Group’s ac-
tivities
b. Streamlining and harmonizing certifications in the various organizational areas, seeking out partnerships
and sharing best practices in environmental management
2 To reduce environmental impacts by using the best available technologies and best practices in the con-
struction, implementation and decommissioning stages of plants, with a view to life cycle analysis and cir-
cular economy.
a. Assessing the environmental impact caused by the construction of plants or by major restructuring op-
erations
b. Examining and applying Best Available Technologies (BAT)
c. Protecting and monitoring surface and groundwater quality in the areas surrounding the plants
d. Ensuring the internal development and application of international best practices
3 To build infrastructure and buildings that protect the local area and biodiversity.
a. Assessing the risks and opportunities of biodiversity
b. Developing and implementing infrastructures based on the Mitigation Hierarchy, the No Net Loss and the
Zero Net Deforestation principles
c. Developing and updating a Biodiversity Action Plan with projects that take into account the specific aspects
of local environments (conservation of the habitats of protected species, reintroduction of particular species
and replanting of indigenous flora in cooperation with research centers and nature observatories)
d. Implementing biomonitoring activities (terrestrial, marine, river)
e. Protecting areas of high biodiversity value and, among these, forests and protected areas
f. Mitigating the visual and landscape impacts of power and distribution facilities and protecting archaeolog-
ical assets during construction activities
g. Undertaking research into innovative solutions to promote the development of urban biodiversity in the
provision of infrastructures and services
4 To play a leadership role in renewables, in the decarbonization of power generation, in the electrification of end-
use and in the efficient use of energy, water and raw materials.
a. Progressively expanding the renewable generation facilities and pursuing the goal of decarbonization
b. Improving the efficiency of power plants
c. Reducing network losses tied to electricity distribution
d. Efficiently managing water resources for industrial uses, with a particular focus on water stress areas
e. Promoting services and products for electrification and end-use energy efficiency
To ensure optimal waste and drain water management and promote circular economy initiatives.
5 a. Reducing waste production
b. Reducing the pollutant load of wastewater
c. Increasing the recovery and recycling rate of waste and drain water produced
d. Exploiting by-products for use as raw materials in external production processes
e. Applying the principles of the circular economy and seizing opportunities for reuse in second life equipment
and products
f. Carefully selecting disposal service providers and using IT systems for waste traceability
To develop innovative technologies for the environment.
6 a. Implementing systems to boost plant efficiency and lower emissions
b. Promoting and developing smart grids and digital asset management solutions to improve their environmental
performance
c. Developing innovative solutions to support renewable production (photovoltaic, geothermal, wind, green hydro-
gen), integrated with energy storage systems
d. Promoting and developing electric mobility
e. Developing innovative solutions for energy efficiency and smart cities
f. Devising innovative services for the modulation of energy consumption that enable greater flexibility and stabil-
ity of the electricity grid and more efficient use of resources
g. Digitalizing processes and cloud computing
To communicate with citizens, institutions and other stakeholders about the Company’s environmental performance.
7 a. Publishing the Sustainability Report and providing open data access to the Group’s key environmental parameters
b. Communicating with financial analysts and taking part in various sustainability indices
c. Consulting and engaging local stakeholders
d. Disseminating environmental initiatives online
To provide employee training and raise awareness on environmental issues.
8 a. Providing training on environmental issues
b. Engaging employees in campaigns to support the environment
To promote sustainable environmental practices with suppliers, contractors and customers.
9 a. Applying supplier assessment criteria based on environmental performance
b. Holding meetings for information and training on relevant environmental aspects at the start of the works
c. Assessing suppliers based on their environmental performance in activities carried out on Enel’s behalf
To meet and exceed legal compliance obligations.
10 a. Ensuring that operations are carried out in accordance with the legal requirements of the various countries and
with the voluntary commitments made
b. Correcting any non-compliance with obligations and voluntary commitments
c. Assessing further voluntary environmental actions and practices, including where not legally required
Chief Executive Officer
Francesco Starace
Enel ensures constant supervision and monitoring of envi- Application of ISO 14001 certified Environmental Man-
ronmentally relevant activities through a granular and har- agement Systems (EMS) is one of the strategic tools de-
monized organization at the level of central coordinating fined by the Group’s environmental policy; at the end of
structures and at Country level. Specifically: 2022, almost all (over 99%) of operations were certified,
•
at Group (Holding) level there is a central HSEQ (Health, while for new plants and new installations, the preparatory
Safety, Environment and Quality) Function with respon- activities for certification are progressively planned. Giv-
sibility for guidance, coordination and definition of envi- en the complexity and variety of activities carried out in
ronmental policy and all other specific guidance policies. the Group, an ISO 14001:2015 certified modular approach
Within the HSEQ Function, the SHE.Factory has been has been adopted, with the definition of a management
created, which is a unit dedicated to specialized training system at Holding level, which provides guidance and co-
on Safety, Health and Environment issues; ordination to the Business Lines on environmental issues.
•
at Business Line level, the HSEQ Functions present in Each Business Line has launched its own EMS focused on
the global structure of each Business Line with a role of its own specific activities. Furthermore, the main thermal
coordination in the management of the respective envi- and geothermal production sites in Europe now also have
ronmental issues, ensuring the necessary specialist sup- EMAS (Eco-Management and Audit Scheme) registration.
port in keeping with the Holding’s guidelines; In support of activities for monitoring environmental per-
•
at Country level, there are staff units with a local coor- formance and the definition of improved plans for the
dination function and managers and contact persons operating units of the Business Lines, the Group environ-
identified in the individual operating units who manage mental reporting system Enel Data on Environment (EDEN)
the specific aspects of the various industrial sites. is used. During 2022, further improvements were made to
Roles and responsibilities on Health, Safety, Environment version 2.0 of the EDEN tool, in order to make the data val-
and Quality issues are defined and reported in the cor- idation system and the calculation and reporting of envi-
porate organization charts; operating procedures and in ronmental KPIs even more robust. Enel also has the global
compliance with Country legislation reflect the Company’s digital dashboards She.metrics and She.start for monitor-
commitment to these issues. This organization also en- ing environmental accidents and improvement actions,
sures that the Integrated Health, Safety and Environment which are defined during assessments or Extra Checking
Management System complies with the requirements on Site (see the paragraph “Operational analysis and mon-
of the international standards ISO 14001:2015 and ISO itoring tools”).
45001:2018.
Training and internal communication
Training is one of the strategic objectives of the Group’s adoption criteria in all Countries. Various communication
policy and forms an integral part of the EMS. Approximate- initiatives were promoted through internal web channels in
ly 41 thousand hours of training were provided in 2022, order to disseminate and strengthen Enel’s commitment
including 13 thousand hours directly through SHE.Facto- to preserving biodiversity and nature, by disseminating
ry. In 2022, implementation of the environmental training best practices and active restoration projects in the var-
program continued, targeted at increasing the skills of ious Countries where the Group is present, and specific
the Group’s technical staff and people with operational campaigns were launched to raise the awareness of in-
responsibilities (Environmental Competence Building Pro- ternal personnel (see the “Near Miss” box). Enel has also
gram), particularly in the field of water management and established partnerships with local environmental associa-
climate change. Training sessions were also held to up- tions to raise awareness among young people in the areas
date staff on Group policies and on the environmental data where it operates.
management platforms (EDEN), with a view to aligning the
Training in schools
passion of those who are part of the local community in
the host territory.
Bee4education took place in the Training and
In 2022, on World Biodiversity Day, Enel launched Education Center in L’Aquila, in partnership with the
two innovative training projects in conjunction with startup Beeing; this project consists of providing a very
Legambiente and Beeing and targeted at primary and inspiring experience on energy and biodiversity with the
secondary school students, to raise awareness of the possibility of getting up close to bees, thanks also to
Company’s high level of commitment to defending an innovative hive with a transparent side that enables
biodiversity and supporting the energy transition. the bees to be observed while they work. The training
Biodiversity4Young reached more than 250 students program, which was carried out from May to October
in 7 regions throughout Italy in 2022, thanks to the 2022 and was targeted at primary and lower secondary
presence of experts from Legambiente and local Enel schools in the province of L’Aquila, involved 300 students
colleagues, who illustrated our initiatives with the and 34 teachers at 4 local schools.
HSE
Near Miss Campaign
In 2022, an innovative internal communication campaign
on HSE Near Misses was launched in all Countries, with
the aim of informing Enel X Global Retail people about the
meaning of near misses and the importance of reporting
them and raising awareness among contractors.
Some cartoon examples were shared, which depicted
near misses that have actually occurred within the
Business Line.
Identification of impact factors and dependencies
on nature and biodiversity
The identification of potential impact factors on nature not yet inclusive of the entire value chain, and involved all
and biodiversity is fundamental for Enel in order to define of the Group’s main technologies, from electricity genera-
the most effective strategies to avoid, minimize, reme- tion from renewable sources and combined-cycle gas tur-
dy or compensate for the associated effects, in line with bine power plants, to electricity distribution systems. The
the provisions of the Mitigation Hierarchy included in the following were not considered in the analysis: coal-fired
Group’s environmental policy. Similarly, the identification of thermoelectric generation, which is already the subject of
dependencies on natural capital and biodiversity enables a medium-term phase-out program, in line with the decar-
us to identify the most appropriate strategies to reduce bonization strategy adopted by the Group, and infrastruc-
the risks to the Company that may derive from these de- ture linked to energy services, such as charging stations
pendencies. for electric cars, as they operate in generally urbanized
The activity referred primarily to direct activities that are habitats.
Impact factors
The main impact factors (or pressures) that may be exert- 4. pollution (emissions, discharge, waste);
ed on nature are summarized in the following categories, 5. disturbances (noise, vibration, artificial lighting) and in-
inspired by those identified by the Science Based Targets troduction of invasive species.
Network (SBTN), and which have been adopted as the The table shows the results of the preliminary materiality
starting point for analyzing actions implemented to miti- analysis of impact factors conducted at Group level for the
gate the associated risks: various technologies. In this case, the evaluation approach
1. use and modification of ecosystems (terrestrial, fresh indicated by the SBTN and the TNFD proposal was used,
water, marine); and the ENCORE tool was used.(5) The scores were inter-
2. use of resources (mainly water withdrawal); nally reviewed based on the specific construction and op-
3. climate change (GHG emissions); erating solutions adopted by the Group.
Impact factors by technology Hydroelectric Solar PV Wind CCGT Networks
1.1 Use of terrestrial ecosystems VM M M M M
1.2 Use of fresh water ecosystems VM NM
2. Water withdrawal M NM VM
3. Climate-changing gas emissions (GHG) NM M M
4.1 Air pollutants (non-GHG) NM NM
4.2 Water pollutants M NM
4.3 Soil pollutants NM M NM M
4.4 Solid waste M NM M
5. Disturbance factors and invasive species NM M M NM M
VM Very Material M Material NM Non Material not applicable
(5) ENCORE (Exploring Natural Capital Opportunities, Risks and Exposure), tool developed by the Natural Capital Finance Alliance (https://encore.naturalcapital.
finance/en/about).
Considering only the material impact factors with respect its share of generation at Group level,(6) the distribution of
to the various technologies, each weighted according to priorities shown in the figure is obtained.
Impact factors prioritized by materiality for the diff erent technologies, weighted according to their
share of power generation
26%
7% Utilization/modifi cation of terrestrial ecosystems
Water withdrawal
9% Solid waste
Emissions of climate-changing gases (GHG)
Disturbance factors and invasive species
Soil pollution
9%
16% Use/modifi cation of fresh water ecosystems
Water pollutants
10%
12%
11%
The overall analysis therefore shows that, considering the the use/modification of terrestrial ecosystems and with
average weighting of the various technologies, the main water withdrawal.
impacts on the external environment are associated with
Dependencies
Dependencies found to be material based on the criteria 5. conservation of the water cycle, which enables the op-
indicated by SBTN for the various technologies adopted by eration of hydroelectric power plants.
Enel are attributable, in relation to the main direct activi- With regard to the upstream supply chain, the main de-
ties, to ecosystem services necessary for the operation of pendency refers only to the “Use of raw materials (mineral
plants and infrastructures, as summarized below: and non-mineral) for the construction and operation of
1. regulation of the climate and climatic events on which plants”.
the operation of all assets depends; The results of the preliminary materiality analysis of eco-
2. protection from floods and extreme environmental system dependencies conducted at Group level for the
events, which are one of the primary causes of failure various technologies are shown in the following table. Also
and unavailability of renewables plants (photovoltaic in this case, the evaluation criteria indicated by the SBTN
and wind) and distribution facilities; and by the TNFD proposal and the guidelines provided by
3. use of water in production cycles, mainly in thermoelec- the ENCORE tool were used. The scores were reviewed in-
tric power generation; ternally based on the construction and operating solutions
4. soil stabilization and erosion control, important for hy- adopted by Enel.
droelectric reservoirs, renewables plants (photovoltaic
and wind), and network infrastructure;
(6) Networks were given a conventional weighting of 25%, being the average of the values associated with the various generation technologies, also by virtue
of its transversal function with respect to them.
Dependencies by technology Hydroelectric Solar PV Wind CCGT Networks
1. Climate regulation VM VM VM NM VM
2. Flood and storm protection M M M NM VM
3. Use of surface fresh water VM NM VM
4. Soil stabilization and erosion control VM M M NM M
5. Conservation of the water cycle VM M
6. Water resource quality NM NM
7. Filtration of pollutants NM NM
8. Bioremediation NM
9. Use of groundwater NM NM
VM Very Material M Material NM Non Material Not applicable
Considering only the material dependencies with respect its share of generation at Group level,(7) the distribution of
to the various technologies, each weighted according to priorities shown in figure is obtained.
Dependencies on ecosystem services prioritized by materiality for the diff erent technologies,
weighted according to their share of power generation
27%
Climate regulation
Use of surf ace fresh water
16% Soil stabilization and erosion control
Flood and storm protection
Conservation of the water cycle
20%
17%
20%
The overall analysis therefore shows that, considering the which is focused on the phase-out of fossil fuels and the
average weighting of the various technologies, the main growth of renewables, particularly wind and solar technol-
dependencies for the Company are associated with cli- ogies, reduces impact on the climate by helping to reduce
mate regulation and the use of surface fresh water. Re- pressure on the ecosystem services on which we depend,
garding these results, Enel’s decarbonization strategy, such as water resources.
(7) The Networks were given a conventional weighting of 25%, being the average of the values associated with the various generation technologies, also by
virtue of its transversal function with respect to them.
Analysis of environmental risks and opportunities
•
The analysis of environmental risks and opportunities asso- recovery and repair needs;
•
ciated with Enel’s business activities was conducted with a authorization delays;
•
multifunctional integrated approach in line with the guide- adaptation and technological innovation needs;
•
lines set out in the guidelines of the TNFD proposal and of additional insurance fees;
•
the SBTN. The analysis, conducted in 2022 based on the loss of competitiveness.
results of the materiality analysis for impacts and depen- Simultaneously, this screening phase selected the following
dencies described above, led to the identification for each main opportunities:
•
technology of the main operational and economic-finan- improvement of environmental and sustainability perfor-
cial risks expected for the Company, as well as social and mance, such as efficiency in the use of resources and ini-
environmental risks, and the identification of the biggest tiatives for the protection, restoration and regeneration
opportunities in relation to each relevant impact factor of natural habitats;
•
and dependency. This preliminary screening analysis led to business opportunities, linked for example to the offer of
the definition of an evaluation template for each technol- nature-positive energy products and services, the launch
ogy, which was used to identify the main critical events of of new partnerships in sustainable innovation sectors, ac-
a physical type (both acute in the short-medium term and cess to green financing, and strategic choices of com-
chronic in the long term) and of a transitional type (result- mitment and sector leadership, aimed at the economic,
ing from possible changes in the regulatory, technological, reputational and financial growth of the Company.
reputational or market framework), and the main associated The screening analysis on Group impacts/risks conducted
risks and opportunities expected. The main operational and in 2022 reaffirmed the action priorities identified last year
material economic-financial risks for Enel are shown below: and described in the following table.
•
reduction or interruption of generation capacity;
Importance Level of control Priorities
• •
Magnitude Goals
• •
Probability Mitigation plans
Impact Factors (or Pressures)
Use of terrestrial ecosystems
•
Land use
• Habitat transformation and fragmentation High Moderate High
Use of natural resources
•
Water withdrawal
High High Moderate
Climate change
•
Climate-changing gas emissions
Very high Very high Moderate
Pollution
•
Pollutant emissions (non-GHG)
•
Water and soil pollution
• High High Moderate
Waste production
Disturbance factors and other
•
Noise and other
• Invasive species Low Moderate Low
The identified intervention priorities relate to the control ces (emissions, discharges and waste production), as well
of risk associated with land occupation and the transfor- as with climate change. In fact, for years Enel has already
mation of ecosystems, and particularly to the use of land been defining stringent improvement targets, the results
and the transformation of terrestrial habitats, in relation of which are described in the following paragraphs, which
to which new commitments were made at Group level as make it possible to mitigate the main risks associated with
early as last year (see the paragraph “Enel’s commitment to these impact factors in the future.
biodiversity”). The analysis also highlighted an already very Following the screening activity described above, a more
high level of commitment and control for risks associated detailed aggregate analysis (by technology) was launched
with the use of natural resources (water withdrawal) and and is currently under way, which takes into account the
with potential pollution factors of environmental matri- estimated magnitude of potential risks or possible oppor-
tunities, the relative probability of occurrence and the mit- Group Policy for the classification and analysis of environ-
igation actions already adopted by the Company. At the mental accidents. Environmental accidents are classified
conclusion of this phase, the risk/opportunity analysis will according to their type and relevance. This classification is
therefore also be extended to the project and site level, based on their possible impact on the environmental matri-
to take into account the specific local context and the in- ces and on any potentially sensitive areas (ecosystems and
teraction of each technological asset with the local char- protected areas), in addition to their negative impact on
acteristics of nature and biodiversity. In this further phase, the organization itself (operational, legal, reputational and
particular importance and priority will be given to plants in financial). In accordance with their classification and mag-
operation and to new assets in the planning and authori- nitude of such accidents, the policy defines communication
zation phase which are located in areas of high value or procedures, the creation of analysis groups with the partic-
naturalistic vulnerability, such as protected areas, critical ipation of the Global Functions, cause analysis, and moni-
habitats and water risk areas. toring of subsequent corrective actions and improvements.
Policy for assessing risks and opportunities related to en-
Dependency management
vironmental impacts. The policy applies to all operation-
al sites (including those being decommissioned) and to
Meanwhile, as regards the management of dependen- Group staff functions in which an EMS compliant with ISO
cies, the main criticality of which is linked to the effects of 14001:2015 requirements is adopted. Its application involves
climate change (climate regulation), an analysis was con- the adoption of a single model for the classification and as-
ducted for each technology and for each geographical sessment of risks and opportunities linked to impact factors
area in which the Group is present. The operational and (or pressures) exerted on the environment, through the use
economic-financial risks resulting from the occurrence of of an IT tool called ERA (Environmental Risk Analysis). The
acute and chronic meteorological phenomena were also analysis process involves evaluating both the interactions of
analyzed in order to define specific adaptation and resil- significant operational aspects with various environmental
ience plans. Acute and chronic physical phenomena are in- matrices, and mitigation controls adopted for compliance
tensified and accelerated by ongoing climate change and with regulatory compliance, as well as the most stringent
their effects on the integrity, operational continuity and voluntary continuous improvement targets; furthermore,
correct functioning of our plants depend, to an essential taking into account the results of the analysis of any acci-
extent, on the ecosystem services of mitigation and con- dental environmental events and periodic environmental
trol performed by the surrounding natural environment, visits to the various sites (Extra Checking on Site - ECoS), it
which may be potentially compromised by human impacts allows a high level of integration of continuous control pro-
(such as the sealing of occupied soil or the extraction of cesses between the various levels of the organization and
raw materials). Among these ecosystem services, regula- the related prioritization of improvement actions. Finally, the
tion of the water cycle and the ability of vegetation to pro- analysis enables the assessment of environmental aspects
tect, prevent and mitigate the onset and intensity of flood- linked to governance and strategic activities carried out by
ing or soil subsidence phenomena are particularly relevant, the central Functions of the organization.
as is the action of extreme winds. For more details, see the
paragraph “Enel’s impact on climate change - Climate sce- Extra Checking on Site (ECoS) Policy. The ECoS is a tool
narios, strategy and risks” in the chapter “Zero emissions for planning and conducting site visits by cross-divisional
ambition”. teams of experts in support of plants and operational fa-
cilities and with a view to identifying improvement plans
and sharing best practices. In 2022, the different Business
Operational analysis and
Lines across all the Countries in which the Group operates
monitoring tools conducted over 80 ECoS with a focus on the environment.
See also the chapter “Occupational health and safety”.
From an operational point of view, in order to identify and Environmental qualifications and inspections for suppliers
minimize environmental risks related to our activities, Enel of products and services. In consideration of the importance
has equipped itself at Group level with a series of import- and role that suppliers have in determining the overall envi-
ant tools for guidance, investigation and intervention with ronmental performances of the Company, Enel has adopted
respect to both the environment and the socio-economic a supplier environmental assessment procedure that is struc-
context. These tools are referred to below and can operate tured and homogeneous for the entire Group, activated in
in a capillary and synergistic way within the organization to the development phase, above all for high environmental risk
protect the environment and associated ecosystems. activities, and following important environmental events. En-
vironmental assessments aim to verify the EMS of suppliers
as a whole and propose improvement actions to be shared mance of its suppliers; specifically, roles and responsibilities
with the supplier. They are also accompanied by environmen- are defined in order to implement Consequence Manage-
tal inspections conducted at the suppliers’ operating sites, ment, as well as actions against its contractors, in the event
which include assessments on specific aspects of biodiversi- of their involvement in significant environmental events and/
ty. In order to standardize inspection standards and obtain a or due to low performance on specific environmental issues,
structured and widespread control system, Enel has adopted encountered during the performance of the contract.
Group Guidelines on Environmental Inspections, which define
the planning criteria as well as methods of execution in the Finally, it should be noted that in analyzing the local con-
field (see the chapter “Sustainable supply chain”). text, which forms the basis for the community relations
model, an assessment of the main social and environmen-
Consequence Management Procedure. At Group level, Enel tal risks and opportunities is carried out in order to min-
has adopted an organizational procedure that defines a imize them and promote socio-economic development.
global line of action to improve the environmental perfor- See the chapter on “Engaging communities”.
Preserving biodiversity
3-3 304-1 304-2 304-3 304-4
Enel’s commitment to biodiversity
Protection of biodiversity is one of the strategic objectives Enel has renewed its commitment to biodiversity, pub-
of Enel’s environmental policy and is regulated by a spe- lished in the 2022 Sustainability Report, by committing it-
cific policy adopted by Enel in 2015 and renewed in 2023 self to concrete actions and time targets.
following COP 15. The policy defines the guidelines for all
the Group’s biodiversity protection initiatives and the prin-
ciples according to which they operate, aligned with the
Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework.
Biodiversity Policy
Enel’s roadmap on biodiversity conservation is in •
promoting biodiversity and nature-based
line with the Kunming-Montreal global biodiversity
solutions integration into business solutions for
framework, embracing the mission of taking action
customers and urban ecosystem, boosting related
to halt and reverse biodiversity loss by 2030.
environmental and social positive impacts;
•
collaborating with public administrations, research
In particular, our Company is committed to:
• centers, environmental and social associations
applying the mitigation hierarchy principle in all
and international stakeholders, as partners in the
project phases, avoiding and reducing impacts on
conservation, restoration and sustainable use of
high biodiversity areas and ecosystem functions
resources, fostering new innovative and systemic
and services, reducing deforestation and habitat
approaches and synergies while respecting
transformation; where avoidance is not possible,
the rights of indigenous peoples and local
we strive to minimize adverse impacts, implement
communities;
rehabilitation and restoration measures and finally, •
monitoring and reporting progress towards the
compensating for residual impacts;
• achievement of local and global goals and targets
implementing, in the case of biodiversity
in alignment to main international standards and
significant residual impacts for new development
in a transparent and responsible approach, for
projects, compensatory works according to the
accounting performances on biodiversity and
commitment of “No Net Loss” of biodiversity and
natural capital management;
“No Net Deforestation”, and where applicable to •
promoting environmental awareness towards
have a Net Positive balance;
• workers and stakeholders, to valorize biodiversity
assessing and transparently disclosing impacts,
conservation and responsible use of natural
dependencies, risks and opportunities on
resources.
biodiversity along operations, supply and value
chains, setting goals and targets on priority issues;
Our commitment
In addition, Enel is committed to conserving forests and,
to nature if deforestation cannot be avoided, will reforest areas
of equivalent value in line with the principle of “No Net
Deforestation”.
Enel undertakes to achieve No Net Loss of biodiversity
for new infrastructures from 2030, commencing its Enel will not build new infrastructures in areas designated
adoption on selected projects in areas of high biodiversity as UNESCO World Heritage Natural Sites.
importance beginning 2025. To achieve this goal, Enel will Enel integrates the assessment of risks and opportunities
work in accordance with the principles of the Mitigation linked to nature into corporate activities in order to
Hierarchy to avoid, minimize and recover impacts on align risk management strategy and processes; it also
natural habitats or species that are threatened, endemic undertakes to evaluate 100%(8) of the significant assets in
or restricted in range. operation by 2025 in order to update, where necessary,
the associated action plan.
(8) For Enel Grids, the assessment focuses on significant assets in protected areas.
With technical and specialist support from The Biodiver-
sity Consultancy, Enel has developed a methodology for
site-specific adoption of the “No Net Loss” (NNL) princi-
ple on biodiversity, developed in a functional manner and
integrated into business processes and in line with Inter-
national Finance Corporation Performance Standard 6
on conserving biodiversity and living natural resources, in
order to define any mitigation actions necessary for indi-
vidual projects.
No Net Loss: from analysis
characterized by the presence of oaks and shrubs, and in
to implementation habitats modified by the presence of crops. The species
analysis did not highlight any species at risk of extinction
(IUCN Red List of Threatened Species). During the impact
The methodology involves applying an impact mitigation assessment phase, many actions were defined for the
hierarchy starting from a preliminary analysis of natural conservation of local biodiversity, such as planting oak
habitats, including forests, and priority species, by means trees and green corridors along the perimeter of the plant,
of a desk analysis that involves the use of application tools as well as protection and conservation interventions for
such as GIS Portal (Geographic Information System)—for some characteristic species (for example, installation of
the correlation of georeferenced information relating to water stations, construction of protective covers using
assets with global maps on habitats (IUCN Habitat Type piles of stones, restoration of old buildings close to the
Classification) and on species (IUCN Red List of Threatened plant used by various species as potential nesting sites) in
Species)—and IBAT (Integrated Biodiversity Assessment order to promote the reproductive capacity of the species.
Tool), which is specifically for biodiversity. In addition to The defined compensation plan satisfies the NNL criterion
the desk analysis, site surveys are carried out starting from and no additional offsetting actions are required.
the localization of the new infrastructure, and continuing
up to the execution and monitoring phases. In order to Barzalosa Project - Additional case to apply the
mitigate and compensate for any residual impacts on methodology, concerning the design, in the Municipality
natural habitats—including forests—and species, specific of Girardot (Cundinamarca), Colombia, of a new primary
action plans (BAP – Biodiversity Action Plan) are defined substation (0.89 ha surface area) and related high voltage
and broken down into monitoring, conservation and line (0.8 km) and medium-voltage line (47.5 km). From
compensation projects, responding to NNL’s commitment the impact assessment, important actions were defined
to biodiversity. Enel tested the methodology by developing to protect biodiversity, minimize impacts, and carry out
a number of pilot cases, starting with environmental reforestation, despite the area being situated within a
impact assessments and the related mitigation actions partially urbanized habitat. Right from the screening
already identified; it emerged that in some cases, the phase, Enel identified the type of habitat with the aid of
actions identified already guarantee achievement of the application tools and the use of detailed global satellite
NNL, whereas for others, additional offsetting actions are maps; desk analysis were also conducted on the animal
required. By way of example, the results on some of the species in the area, also supported by the results of
sites analyzed are shown below. monitoring campaigns carried out in situ. Although the
application of the NNL methodology estimated a negligible
Carbo Project - The project is a study for the construction net loss of biodiversity, Enel nonetheless committed to the
of a photovoltaic system over a site spanning 96 hectares restoration, conservation and enhancement of habitat by
in Spain (Andalusia), which is situated in natural habitats planting of over 200 native trees.
Measures taken to reduce
where initiatives are developed, such as voluntary projects
impacts to safeguard local species and improve habitat conditions,
based on knowledge of the environment surrounding the
site. The results of monitoring at the local level are com-
Enel has consolidated experience in managing and pro- municated and analyzed at global level by means of inter-
tecting biodiversity near its production sites, starting from nal tools, allowing the identification of general issues that
the site design and construction phases; particularly in the need to be addressed with improvement plans or projects
past few years, activity has focused on renewable plants at Group level. The main impacts on biodiversity during op-
and distribution networks, in line with the Group’s decar- erations linked to technologies are:
•
bonization strategy. The Group Guidelines, issued in 2019, wind plants: impacts related to collision with birds
define the principles and procedures for managing im- and bats. Among the global initiatives aimed at reduc-
pacts on biodiversity during the entire life cycle of plants, ing interference with birds and bats, the Wind Wildlife
from the development phase to operation and decommis- Challenge project (2022) was launched, which involves
sioning, through the application of the Mitigation Hierar- identifying increasingly innovative solutions such as the
chy in the various phases of the life cycle. use of sensors and tools, based on radar, chamber and
For the Group’s plants and installations that have been multi-sensor technologies, that can detect and even ac-
present in the local area for a long time, environmental tuate the automatic shutdown of the turbine concerned;
protection and monitoring action plans are also adopted. tests are under way on plants in Italy, Spain, Chile, the
In line with international standards and the principles of the United States and Canada. This testing campaign follows
biodiversity policy, the risk to biodiversity is assessed in an the one already launched in 2021 in the South African
integrated manner right from the feasibility phase, start- plant of Gibson Bay with ultrasonic deterrent systems
ing with the location of the site of interest, and involves specifically for bats;
•
an assessment of the type of habitat, prioritizing habitats hydroelectric plants: interference with fish and soil ero-
that do not present environmental criticalities, and consid- sion; respectively, fish restocking actions are envisaged
ering geographical proximity to protected areas, habitats to restore the ecosystem and species, such as the res-
that are critical or important for biodiversity, as well as the toration or improvement of spawning or fry habitats, the
potential presence of endangered species in the area of planting of native species directly or near the banks of
interest. To support the definition of local action plans for the reservoir in order to control the stability of the ter-
the mitigation of any risk identified, Enel adopts a consoli- rain, and also to improve habitat conditions;
•
dated process of stakeholder engagement, which involves solar plants: related to the occupation and possible
continuous dialogue in synergy with all stakeholders—local transformation of habitats. The main initiatives include
communities, competent authorities and research insti- agrivoltaics, where the spaces between rows of photo-
tutes—with a view to supporting increasingly sustainable voltaic modules are used to plant aromatic and medici-
business for the economy, nature and people. nal herbs, food plants and melliferous flowers to also en-
In the construction of new plants, specific action plans are courage the establishment of pollinator species, which
also adopted to protect biodiversity by checking the effec- improve the biodiversity of the site’s ecosystems and
tiveness of the actions undertaken and the occurrence of ecosystem services;
•
any potential impacts, including at a later stage after the distribution networks: risk of birds colliding with over-
works have started. In the case of large plants, impact mit- head lines being electrocuted; for this reason, starting
igation plans are envisaged, developed together with local from the design phase to the operation and mainte-
stakeholders, including reforestation (see box “Restoration nance of existing sites, according to the biodiversity
of the El Quimbo tropical forest”). aspects associated with the site, Enel adopts mitigation
Once the infrastructure is commissioned, protection of measures, including the installation of line marking de-
biodiversity becomes an integral part of environmental vices at regular intervals along overhead power lines,
management, through periodical management for the as well as the isolation of live parts. Added to this are
checking of impacts highlighted in the authorization phase, actions related to the mitigation of interference risks
as well as the continuous assessment of potential impacts during the construction phase, including the relocation
that could occur later. This is also the moment where the of terrestrial fauna to protected areas.
plant consolidates its relationship with the local area and
Reforestation
The main initiatives notably include an activity launched
São Luiz Gonzaga in 2017 in the Municipality of São Luiz Gonzaga (Brazil),
which was completed and tested as recently as the end
(Rio Grande do Sul)
of 2022, linked to the license for maintaining the distribu-
tion network in the area. It is a reforestation activity using
Maintenance activities on existing networks require defor- plants for phytodepuration as well as melliferous species,
estation interventions to guarantee the correct and safe which are used to attract pollinating insects, created at a
functioning of power lines and substations. In order to former landfill. Local communities have also been involved
mitigate the impact of maintenance carried out on opera- in monitoring herbaceous and shrubby flora grown in the
tional networks, Enel defines and adopts recovery plans for area. Furthermore, some bird species have also been con-
impacted habitats, through systematic planting of native sidered, for which a census was carried out based on the
species. sighting and discovery of nesting sites.
Restoration of the
of bromeliad Pitcairnia huilensis. In 2022, the area
El Quimbo tropical forest covered by the restoration projects totaled approximately
7.3 thousand hectares, including approximately 6.6
(Colombia)
thousand hectares of assisted natural regeneration and
approximately 0.7 thousand hectares of active restoration.
Near the El Quimbo hydroelectric plant in Colombia, an In addition, the “Attalea“ Tropical Dry Forest Research
important reforestation project focusing on tropical dry Center was created, which works in collaboration
forest was started in 2014 and is still ongoing, which will with Colombian universities on numerous ecological
affect a total area of over 11,000 hectares in the various restoration initiatives, collaborations and projects in
stages of the project. In the initial phase, launched on support of biodiversity research. Demonstrating the
an area of 140 hectares with the support of Fundación importance of the area from an ecological perspective,
Natura, the best strategies to be implemented in the around one thousand hectares of the area being restored
restoration process were defined and the optimal native have already been declared a Civil Society Nature Reserve,
species for restoration and propagation were identified; while the possibility of extending the protected area to
the pilot phase also led to the discovery of a new species include a further 3 thousand hectares is being evaluated.
this need, Enel recognizes the importance of adopting
Opportunities for development
nature-based solutions (NBS) as a powerful tool for sus-
and shared wellbeing tainable city planning and innovative design for customers
who address these issues. Enel X Global Retail proposes
NBS solutions that can be integrated into the offer port-
For us, interacting with the local area and communities is folio, and which have been associated with internationally
an opportunity to promote socio-economic development, recognized scientific indicators that are used to measure
generating value and wellbeing through our services and the positive impacts on urban biodiversity. In practice, the
products, in all the contexts in which we operate. In par- NBS solutions can be integrated with technological solu-
ticular, as far as cities are concerned, the ongoing grow- tions and are aimed at providing ecosystem services, from
ing trend of urbanization can generate significant con- climate change adaptation and mitigation to improving
flicts between natural and urban environments. To meet the quality of life in urban centers.
Nature in the city
One of the various global initiatives for integrating NBS
with Enel X solutions is an intervention carried out in
Santiago, Chile, involving the rooftop refurbishment of
the Mandarin Hotel; along with the installation of a new
photovoltaic system, a biodiversity intervention was
carried out involving the construction of a greenhouse,
the planting of local fruit trees and the installation of a
number of beehives to protect pollinating species and
develop urban beekeeping.
A further environmental redevelopment intervention was
carried out in the city of Bogotá (Colombia), near the
e-bus terminal, by Enel X Global Retail. The intervention
involved planting urban vegetable gardens and vertical
greenery, which was integrated with a number of murals.
The initiative also directly engaged the local community
in choosing artistic content and enhancing the urban
garden.
The strategy linked to urban biodiversity is associated with have been built, where planting of native and pollinating
further opportunities linked to power generation, such as species has been carried out, to support the entire eco-
the creation of agrivoltaic plants, which integrate business logical balance, as well as promoting sustainable crops, in
needs with nature. In recent years, many pilot solar plants synergy with local communities.
The biodiversity action plan
200
projects
In 2022, 200 projects were carried out to protect species the following link: https:// for the protection of
and natural habitats at operating plants, of which 82 were www.enel.com/investors/ species and natural habitats
developed in partnership with government agencies and sustainability/strate-
9,452
non-governmental organizations and universities, for a to- gy-sustainable-progress/
ha
tal investment of around 11.9 million euros. The projects biodiversity.
of habitats restored
were carried out in all countries and regions and mainly In addition, in 2022 a fur-
(related to projects carried
concern operational renewable generation plants and dis- ther 63 projects relat-
out in 2022)
tribution networks. The projects included habitat recov- ing to plant construction
ery activities covering 9,452 ha (9,092 ha in 2021), most sites were carried out, mainly in Brazil, Chile, Spain and
of which are related to ecological restoration and refor- North America, targeted at the conservation and monitor-
estation, mainly in Colombia, Brazil, Chile and Spain. Ex- ing of native species impacted, for an overall capital ex-
amples of the measures to mitigate impacts on biodiver- penditure of 6.4 million euros.
sity carried out to apply the related policy are available on
the sustainability section of the www.enel.com website, at
Interaction of assets with biodiversity are updated annually, to measure the impacts generated
and protected areas and monitor the effectiveness of action plans.
Enel measures its environmental performance on aspects Land occupation: the area of land occupied by assets. This
of biodiversity in a transparent and responsible way, both is a general indicator, as it does not provide an indication
in the construction of new plants and during the operation of the quality of the habitat that has been occupied by the
of its power generation sites. For this reason, in 2021 we assets.
defined and calculated a set of specific indicators, which
Land occupation(9) – Power generation assets
Technology Hectares (ha) in 2021(10) Hectares (ha) in 2022
Solar 16,632 27,773
Wind 12,660 13,326
Hydroelectric 202,425 202,425
Geothermal 442 442
Thermal 6,318 6,318
In 2022, the land occupation of power generation as- Land occupation – Asset Grids(11)
sets increased by 11,807 ha, equal to +5%(10) of the total This year, data on the occupation of distribution infra-
(238,477 ha in 2021), including 4.7% solar and 0.3% wind, in structures is also reported for the first time, calculated by
line with the development of new plants envisaged by the evaluating the buffer zone for high-voltage (HV) and medi-
business strategy. um-voltage (MV) lines as land occupation, distinguished by
voltage level and type of conductor (bare or in cable) and
the surface area of transformer substations.
Technology Hectares (ha)(12) km
Primary and secondary substations 2,539 -
High Voltage Lines 54,296 33,716
Medium Voltage Lines 431,307 653,205
Total 488,142 686,921
Transformation of natural habitats: measures the area of Around 70% of the infrastructures built to date are situat-
land occupied in hectares (ha), classified according to the ed in cultivated areas, grazing land and urban areas; only
IUCN(13) habitat categories on which the assets have been the remaining 30% of the infrastructures have impacted
built. It therefore represents a specific indicator of the im- natural-type habitats, of which only 9% are forest-type
pact on habitats that have been transformed to build plants. habitats.
Power generation plants that entered operation in 2022
occupy land amounting to 11,807 ha, an increase of 10% Presence of assets in protected areas: mapping was car-
on the growth recorded in 2021 (10,700 ha), due to an in- ried out for all power generation assets and from this year
crease in the development of renewable energies; of this also for Grids HV and MV lines, in the main Countries,(14) to
new land occupation, 5,770 ha (49%) relate to natural hab- assess the presence of assets in UNESCO World Heritage
itats (23% less than the previous year, 7,530 ha), and, of Natural areas and IUCN I-IV classified protected areas.
these, 537 ha (5%) are related to forest-type habitats.
As far as distribution is concerned, almost all HV and MV
lines were built in the 1970s, mainly in urbanized habitats.
(9) Land occupation was calculated for power generation facilities using a GIS application in which each plant was modeled and georeferenced. The following
criteria were used to model land occupation and area of influence: solar, thermoelectric and geothermal were modeled with the plant perimeter; for hy-
droelectric, the perimeter of the reservoirs was modeled; for wind plants, from the position of the generators the area of land occupation is modeled in a
precautionary manner to take into account ancillary works such as yards, roads and areas used when the construction site is operative (in so as far as they
are subsequently restored).
(10) Compared with last year, KPI mapping and calculation tools were refined, which led to a slight change in the figure compared to 2021.
(11) Italy, Spain, Chile MT, Peru, Colombia and Brazil (São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Ceará) are considered.
(12) Land occupation intended as a buffer zone for HV and MV lines and the area occupied by primary and secondary substations was calculated using the PUC
(Single Cartographic Portal).
(13) https://www.iucnredlist.org/resources/habitat-classificationscheme.
(14) Italy, Spain, Chile MT, Peru, Colombia and Brazil (Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro).
Presence of power generation plants in protected areas as at 2022 – by technology(15)
number of infrastructures Presence in protected
in protected areas/total Presence in protected areas as % of the total
Technology number Countries areas (ha) occupied by technology
Solar 4/161 Greece 32 0.1%
Wind 8/266 Italy/Spain 116 0.9%
Hydroelectric reservoirs 135/1,096(16) Italy/Spain/Chile 5,595 2.8%
Geothermal plants 0/39 - - -
Thermoelectric plants 2/9(17) Italy 28 0.4%
Presence of power plants in protected areas – by Country
Renewable and thermoelectric power plants
Countries Hectares (ha) % in protected area of the total area occupied in the Country
Italy 3,738 19%
Spain 1,986 8%
Greece 32 6%
Chile 15 0.03%
Total 5,771 2.3%
The number of generating plants situated within protect- hydroelectric plants and infrastructures. This project aims
ed areas (IUCN I-IV) remains unchanged since 2013, as no to improve the knowledge and conservation of cave bats,
new plants have been built in these areas. The presence their ecological needs and their relationship with the op-
of power generation assets in protected areas mainly re- eration of hydroelectric plants, through study and moni-
fers to hydroelectric plants which were largely built before toring campaigns, using new cutting-edge methods and
the 1970s (in many cases before the creation of protected technologies such as automatic monitoring by means of
areas) and which are managed according to basin man- time-lapse photography (photo-trapping) and ultrasound
agement plans shared with the authorities and which pro- recordings. Through the collation of data, Enel carries out
mote the conservation of local species. Notable examples various actions to adapt its plumbing systems so that they
are the multi-year ENDESA-bats project, developed volun- promote bat colonies, including the air conditioning of
tarily in the autonomous Spanish provinces of Catalonia, tunnel entrances, the targeted positioning of shelter box-
Galicia, Andalusia and Aragon through the study and mon- es and a reduction in brightness at a number of points that
itoring of the bat populations that inhabit the tunnels of are critical to the bats.
Presence of distribution infrastructure in protected areas as at 2022 – by technology
% in protected areas of the total
Technology Hectares in protected areas (ha) occupied by the asset(18)
Primary and secondary substations 28 1.1%
High and medium voltage lines 13,769 2.8%
Total 13,797 2.8%
The countries in the Enel Grids perimeter with the highest to mitigate impact on the surrounding environment, also
proportion of assets present in protected areas are Spain, considering the need to comply with its service obligation.
Italy and Brazil. Most of the Enel Grids infrastructure was Below are some examples of mitigation projects currently
built before the 1970s, in many cases before the creation under way for infrastructure that falls within protected ar-
of protected areas. In cases where the infrastructure falls eas (IUCN I-IV).
within a protected area, Enel creates the best solutions
(15) The data reported on GIS has been revised and optimized, leading to adjustments in the value of hectares (ha) and the number of plants compared with last year.
(16) The figure represents individual reservoirs, not hydroelectric power generation plants.
(17) The figure includes plants being decommissioned.
(18) Out of the total of HV and MV lines.
Land occupation
(ha) in protected Critical species
Technology Country Plant areas impacted Habitat Biodiversity projects
Rescue, translocation
Bromeliaceae
and safeguarding
Refurbishment (Tillandsia spp.),
New Hope - of 56 specimens
of existing Colombia 3 Orchidaceae Forest
Indumil of epiphytic plants
HV line (Epidendrum Actions for rescue and
(orchids and
secundum) translocation of epiphytic
bromeliads)
flora
Native and non-
native plants
belonging to
Refurbishment Planting to offset
Zipaquirá - different forest
of existing Colombia 22 Forest trees removal and
Ubaté species
HV line vegetation clearance
(Juglans,
Reforestation intervention
Quercus, Fuchsia,
Trichanthera spp.)
Casimiro de Planting to offset
HV line Schinus, Albizia,
Brazil/Rio Abreu/Rio 1.5 Forest trees removal (about
maintenance Cordia
Tabicum 600 specimens) Reforestation intervention
(clearing, digging holes,
planting)
Biodiversity project
to protect the huemul (Chile)
The huemul (Hippocamelus bisulcus) is a species of
deer found in the area of influence of the Ñuble National
Reserve, a forest reserve located near the hydroelectric
plants located in the Laguna del Laja. It is a native species
that is endemic to Chile and an emblem of the country,
and is at risk of extinction according to the Red List of
Threatened Species compiled by the International Union
for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The huemul population
located in Los Nevados de Chillán in central Chile is
vulnerable due to its small size and highly fragmented
distribution. Since 2018, Enel has participated in a
multidisciplinary project led by the Chilean Ministry of the
Environment to develop and implement the “Biodiversity
project to protect the huemul”, which involves defining a
plan for the restoration, conservation and management of
the huemul population, with a view to reducing threats to
the species and increasing protection measures through
habitat restoration and conservation. In February 2022,
the plan was approved by the Chilean Ministry of the
Environment, recognizing Enel’s contribution to conserving
this species and preventing the risk of its extinction.
Eagle owl conservation
project in Catalonia
In the first half of 2021, a project was launched in birds. This measure provides information about their flight
Catalonia (Spain) to monitor and conserve the eagle owl, patterns during a period of one year, in order to identify
which is the largest nocturnal bird of prey in Europe and and analyze the decisive factors in their development.
whose conservation is under threat. Indeed, in Spain it is
included in the “List of Wild Species in Regime of Special
Protection” and in Catalonia it is listed as a protected
species.
The project involves the adoption of specific measures to
avoid the birds being killed by medium- and low-voltage
lines, an initiative that is part of the voluntary projects of
the Endesa Biodiversity Conservation Plan, developed
with the Birding Natura company. For several weeks, a
live webcam was used to display real-time activity in a
nest in the plain of Lleida, in the region of Les Garrigues.
In addition, radio tracking transmitters were placed on 6
eagle-owl chicks, tracking a total of 6 chicks and 6 adult
Biodiversity Significance:(19) this qualitative indicator tion of biodiversity in order to ensure proper management
makes it possible to classify power generation plants ac- to mitigate potential impacts. Also in this case it should
cording to the importance of biodiversity present in their be noted that most sites of high significance are related
vicinity (high/medium/low). The methodology therefore to hydroelectric plants, generally infrastructures built in
makes it possible to identify priority sites for the protec- mountain areas and present in the locality for many years.
Sites of high biodiversity significance/
19 / 161 66 / 266 541 / 1,096(1) 39 / 91(2) 0 / 39
total plants by technology
(1) The figure represents individual reservoirs, not hydroelectric power generation plants.
(2) The figure includes plants being decommissioned.
In 2022, 4 new power generation plants were built in areas risk of extinction, for which action plans were developed to
of high biodiversity value, 2 fewer than in 2021, including restore habitats and protect species.
3 in critical habitats and 1 in areas containing species at
Land Critical species
occupation potentially
Technology Country Plant (ha) Significance impacted Habitat Biodiversity projects
Nyctalus
lasiopterus
Sol de Rhinolophus Installation of nests, perches,
Solar Spain 77 Critical habitat Grassland
Casaquemada mehelyi insect boxes and bird feeders
Otis tarda
Tetrax
Habitat improvement for
amphibious reptiles and other
faunal groups: restoration of
ponds to promote biodiversity
Triturus boscai Wetlands and
Solar Spain Torrecilla 118 Critical habitat Habitat improvement for wild
Aquila adalberti Grassland
rabbits in the Francisco Pizarro
node
Improvement of habitats and
shelters for birds of prey
Solar Spain Can Lloreta 6 Critical habitat Olea europaea Grassland Restoration of degraded area
Monitoring of birds and bats: -
No endangered baseline definition and species
Endangered Wetlands and
Wind Spain Tico 9 species mapped in conditions;
species Grassland
the project area - impact monitoring before and
during construction
Presence of endangered species near plants/assets: tures for which biodiversity projects are developed and
knowledge of protected species potentially present in the includes both flora and fauna species. The summary of this
vicinity of assets is important in order to evaluate the ac- mapping is presented in the infographic table of biodiver-
tions needed to reduce the risk of interference by Enel as- sity projects.
sets. This type of mapping is carried out for all infrastruc-
(19) To identify areas of high biodiversity importance, the following general criteria are considered: 1) Protected areas (UNESCO World Heritage Natural Sites and
IUCN I-IV); 2) Critical habitats as defined by IFC Performance Standard 6; 3) Presence of endangered species, according to the methodology developed and
adapted by UNEP-WCMC, Conservation International and Fauna & Flora International (“Biodiversity indicators for site-based impacts”, 2020).
• Critically Endangered (CR)
• Endangered (END)
• Vulnerable (VUL)
• Near Threatened (NT)
• Least Concern (LC)
Project type No. of species on the IUCN Red List
Research
and
No. of of which Conservation Restoration other
Country projects Mandatory Voluntary voluntary Monitoring (species) (habitats) purposes Group CR EN VU NT LC Total
Argentina 3 2 1 33% 1 1 - 1 - - - - - -
Birds;
Brazil 46 38 8 17% 16 7 21 2 Mammals; 1 9 36 58 285 389
Fish; Plants
Chile 27 12 15 56% 9 6 6 6 Birds; Plants - - 3 3 69 75
Birds; Plants;
Colombia 15 6 9 60% 4 5 4 2 Mammals; - 2 3 5 58 68
Reptiles
Greece 2 1 1 50% 2 - - - Birds - 1 3 3 60 67
Birds;
Mammals;
Guatemala 8 - 8 100% 5 - 3 - Plants; 3 3 4 8 80 98
Amphibians
and Reptiles
Birds; Bats;
Iberia 48 8 40 83% 2 32 8 6 Mammals; - 6 14 13 46 79
Plants
Ireland 1 - 1 100% - 1 - - - - - - - -
Birds; Bats;
Italy 30 8 22 73% 6 21 3 - Mammals; 3 3 18 4 37 65
Plants; Fish
Birds; Bats;
Mexico 4 4 - - 4 - - - - 1 6 8 38 53
Plants
Panama 1 1 - - - - 1 - - - - - - -
Peru 5 3 2 40% 3 2 - - Birds; Plants - - - 1 2 3
Romania 9 3 6 67% 3 6 - - Birds - 1 5 2 7 15
South
1 1 - - 1 - - - Birds; Bats - 3 1 1 18 23
Africa
Total 200 87 113 57% 56 81 46 17 7 29 93 106 700 935
Assessment of ecosystem services: among the approach- velop studies to verify how this approach facilitates better
es that have been developed for some years in the scien- environmental management of its infrastructures in order
tific community to describe fully the contribution provided to maximize the benefits for the environment and for lo-
by biodiversity and nature, one relates to the optimization cal communities (see the dedicated box: “Optimization of
of ecosystem services. In this area, Enel continues to de- ecosystem services in Chile”).
Evaluation study of ecosystem
survey was conducted on a further 34,300 ha owned by
services in the Fundación Huinay the Fondación San Ignacio del Huinay, of which Enel is a
founding member together with the Pontifical Catholic
University of Valparaiso.
Enel carried out a study in Chile to identify and enhance Ecosystem services have been classified according to
the most relevant ecosystem services in natural areas the “Common International Classification of Ecosystem
taken as a benchmark, in order to propose management Services” (CICES) (https://cices.eu/), which selects and
measures for their conservation. In addition to the 5 classifies services through participatory methods, applying
areas assessed last year (totaling an area of 10,300 ha) internationally accepted standards. These are presented in
which are part of the appurtenances of a number of three main areas, namely: cultural services, regulating and
hydroelectric plants owned by Enel in Chile, in 2022 a provisioning. The main ones are shown below:
Supplies Regulation Cultural
Availability Capture and Survey
of water storage of carbon
The significant theoretical aspect of the environmental fac- industrial and uncontaminated, yielding useful results for
tor has become an economic model, put into practice on making socio-environmental decisions.
a conceptual level and tested in various environments, both
Ecosystem services 845,110 €/year
Economic value creation
34,311 ha
The numbers
Analyzed surface
at a glance
109,705 tCO /year
2
CO capture potential
2
18
Ecosystem services analyzed and leveraged
for a Management Plan
Huinay – POETA Program –
(Observation of the terrestrial and aquatic ecosystem
an example of a partnership of Chilean Patagonia) which was launched in 2018 with
the aim of giving a scientific response to the climate
for researching the impacts
emergency in Chile and around the world. Specifically,
of climate on nature the program has a twofold objective: the first is to
conduct long-term monitoring of the essential variables
of the climate and the terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems
In 2021, Fondazione Centro Studi Enel signed a of Chilean Patagonia, through a network of automatic
partnership agreement with Fondación San Ignacio stations, field sampling and remote detection; the
del Huinay with the aim of developing joint projects second is to provide, with the help of the GEOOs portal
involving research, analysis and scientific studies. The (Observational Geoportal), a freely accessible, real-time
partnership encompasses ecological issues, management data management and information transfer system useful
and conservation of ecosystems and biodiversity, and for decision-making.
focuses on the development of the POETA program
Reducing pollution
3-3 305-7
The reduction of the environmental impacts associated oxides (NO), and dust. To this end, over the years numer-
x
with the operation of our plants is a strategic objective ous measures have been taken to improve the environ-
for us, pursued through the application of the best tech- mental performance of most of the thermoelectric plants
nologies available and best international practices. During in the company’s fleet, beginning from best technologies
2022, Enel continued its commitment on the path towards and international practices and taking into consideration
decarbonization. However, it should be noted that, due to factors such as context and local priorities, the plant con-
the ongoing energy contingency in some countries in our figuration and its potential service life.
perimeter, there was an overall increase in coal-fired gen- For years, the Group has set itself important objectives to
eration compared with 2021, particularly in Italy due to the reduce specific emissions of pollutants emitted into the
disconnection of energy supplies from Russia. For details atmosphere by 2030. In line with the SBTi certification pro-
on greenhouse gas emissions, please refer to the chapter cess with respect to the Group’s GHG emissions, which
“Zero emissions target”. involved revising the 2017 targets and baseline net of as-
The constant commitment to improving air quality in the set deconsolidations as at December 31, 2022,(20) the 2017
areas where Enel operates is demonstrated by the care target values and the baseline for the main environmental
paid to reducing the main atmospheric pollutants associ- indicators were also revised. In particular, for emissions of
ated with thermal generation: sulfur oxides (SO), nitrogen pollutants into the atmosphere, the new targets include:
2
(20)For reference, see the chapter “Zero emissions ambition”.
Objective of reducing our main emissions
(vs 2017 baseline year)
Recalculated
Dusts SO NO
2 x
-60% -85% -70%
0.005 g/kWh 0.05 g/kWh 0.16 g/kWh
eq eq eq
Starting from this year, the target of reducing Hg emis- By contrast, SO and dust emissions are in line with last
2
sions from coal-fired thermoelectric plants by 100% com- year. In particular, specific emissions of SO totaled 0.07
2
pared to the year of reference will also be introduced.(21) g/kWheq (in line with 2021, which was 0.07 g/kWh ),
eq
Pollutant reduction trends and targets are consistent NO emissions 0.32 g/kWh (-8.6% compared with 2021,
x eq
with the Strategic Plan and with the Group’s decarbon- which was 0.35 g/kWh ) and dust 0.005 g/kWh (in line
eq eq
ization objective. with 2021, which was 0.005 g/kWh ). For mercury emis-
eq
Emission measurements are carried out in compliance sions, the value for the year 2022 was 75 kg of Hg, down
with each Country’s regulatory framework and, in the 81% compared with 2017. For these emissions—which
majority of large plants, a measurement system is used have also always been subject to constant monitoring
that can assess compliance with the limits in real time. Its and reduction in all plants of the coal-fired thermoelec-
reliability is guaranteed by accredited certifying entities tric park through the adoption of the best available and
and through assessments carried out by inspection au- technologically applicable abatement techniques—as
thorities. previously stated, the target value of 0 kg of Hg (-100%)
In 2022 there was a slight decrease in NO emissions, in by 2030 was set, in line with the expected closure of all
x
b1 Loettth e ra tbo sSotalkuetheo ldaenrsd specific te2r Omusr ,s ulisntakienadb lteo p rtohgere scsoncom- 3 Matceoriaalilt-yfi arneadly spislants by 20247 O, uwr pheerf roeramsa ntchee value set f5o Arp p2e0n2d5ix
itant lower overall generation of gas and CCGT plants. is 14 kg of Hg (-96% vs 2017).
SO (g/kWh)
NO (g/kWh) 2
x
0.55(1)
0.36(1)
0.32(2) -70%
0.29
vs 2017 -85%
vs 2017
0.16
0.07(2) 0.07
0.05
2017 2022 2025 target 2030 2017 2022 2025 target 2030
Dusts (g/kWh)
-60%
vs 2017
0.013(1) 0.005(2) 0.006 0.005
2017 2022 2025 target 2030
(1) Values recalculated net of corporate deconsolidations as at December 31, 2022.
(2) The values for 2022 recalculated net of previous corporate deconsolidations are 0.29 g/kWh for NO, 0.08 g/kWh for SO and 0.006 g/kWh for dust.
(1) Valori ricalcolati al nett o dei deconsolidamenti societari al 31/12/2022. x 2
(2) I valori per l’anno 2022 ricalcolati al nett o dei precedenti deconsolidamenti societari risultano per gli NO pari a 0,29 g/kWh, per l’SO pari a 0,08 g/kWh e
x 2
per le Polveri pari a 0,006 g/kWh.
(21) The target refers to the Countries for which this measure is prescribed and therefore includes Italy, Spain and Chile, whereas Colombia is excluded. The
baseline value of 387 kg of Hg, referred to the year 2017, was calculated net of corporate deconsolidations as at December 31, 2022.
Using water responsibly
3-3 303-1 303-2 303-3
The responsible use and conservation of water resources ly used in thermal and nuclear generation, for the cooling
are fundamental guarantees for the protection of natural of thermal cycles and for operating atmospheric emission
habitats and for the wellbeing of the people around us who abatement systems. Overall water requirements for gen-
use the ecosystem services provided by these resources, eration are covered, where available, through withdrawals
as well as being essential for the success of our own ac- from so-called “non-scarce” sources (mainly including sea
tivities, which also depend to a significant extent on the water, which is used as-is in open cycle cooling processes
responsible use and conservation of water resources. For and subjected to desalination to obtain industrial water)
this reason, the responsible use of water has been includ- and, where necessary, from “scarce” sources, represented
ed among the strategic objectives of our environmental by surface water, groundwater and water for civilian use. To
policy and is pursued using an integrated management minimize these withdrawals, as well as maximize the res-
approach. toration of internal wastewater, Enel uses, where available,
The preliminary analysis of environmental risks and op- treated wastewater supplied by water management con-
portunities, conducted based on the TNFD criteria and sortia.
reported in the chapter “Identification of impact factors The main dependencies are instead attributable—in ad-
and dependencies on nature and biodiversity”, particular- dition to the aforementioned needs of thermal plants—to
ly highlighted the materiality, for some energy generation hydroelectric plants, which, despite having negligible wa-
technologies, of impacts linked to the use of water re- ter consumption, depend for their operation on the wa-
sources, above all fresh water and particularly in areas with ter cycle which, through rainfall and the melting of snow,
high water stress, where competition between natural and constantly replenishes surface watercourses (for further
human needs is greatest. information, see the following paragraph “Responsible and
Specifically, the main impacts are above all linked to water integrated management of water catchment areas”).
withdrawal mainly for industrial purposes. Water is large-
Efficient use of water resources
In 2022 total consumption of process and cooling water in treatment plants and to measures to increase the efficien-
a closed cycle(22) was approximately 76.0 x103 ML, a moder- cy of cooling systems and evaporative towers, by upgrad-
ate increase compared to the 2021 figure(23) (73.1 x103 ML), ing the control and recovery systems of the drains. Other
due to the ongoing international energy contingency and important optimization interventions concerned the use
the consequently greater need for electricity generation of crystallizers,(26) a technology that allows the complete
from coal-fired plants (which are expected to be closed by reuse of waste water in the production cycle, eliminating
the end of 2027). As for the specific water requirement,(24) its discharges (ZLD – Zero Liquid Discharge plants). Finally,
in 2022 it was 0.27 l/kWh, slightly down on 2021(25) (0.29 l/ great importance is given to the reuse of rainwater collect-
kWh), despite the moderate increase in consumption vol- ed in plant areas, which cannot be returned as-is to natural
umes, thanks to the simultaneous growth of the renewable receptors as it is potentially contaminated by contact with
generation park. industrial surfaces. This water is stored in special storage
Enel is constantly committed to progressively reducing the tanks and reused in the generation processes, thus further
specific need for water for its plants and assets, through helping to reduce the environmental footprint of our gen-
the efficient use of water in existing thermal plants, the eration sites.
evolution of the energy mix towards renewables, and the Measures to improve efficiency in the use of water also
progressive reduction of generation from fossil fuels. make it possible to minimize water effluent as well as to-
Among the efficiency measures, particular attention is paid tal consumption, which are respectively 30.8 x103 ML and
to maximizing the recovery of process wastewater leaving 45.2 x103 ML.
Water withdrawal by source 2022 (76 x103 Mega liters)
49.9%
0.1% Surf ace water
8.3%
Sea water
Ground water
Water from third part ies
12.5%
Wastewater
29.2%
(22) The waters used for open cycle cooling are reported separately among the environmental indicators. They are not taken into consideration here in assessing
the efficient use of the water resource, as they are returned in full to the natural receptors, without substantial changes in quality, apart from a slight increase
in temperature, subject to authorization and continuous control in order to guarantee the absence of measurable impacts on exposed ecosystems.
(23) The total value of process and closed-loop cooling water withdrawal for the year 2021 was recalculated following the refinement in 2022 of the way in which
water withdrawn for cooling purposes at certain nuclear power plants in Spain was calculated.
(24) Water needs are constituted by all the water withdrawal quotas from surface (including recovered rainwater) and groundwater sources, by third parties, from
the sea and from wastewater (quota for third party procurements) used for processes needs and for closed-cycle cooling, except the quota of seawater
discharged back into sea after the desalination process (brine). This latter item (brine) contributes to the total quota of withdrawals.
(25) Value also recalculated to take into account the reclassification of the cooling cycles of some nuclear power plants in Spain.
(26) Crystallizers or SEC plants, named after Softening, Evaporation and Crystallization processes.
The new target for reducing specific fresh water withdrawal
and the focus on water-stressed areas
Starting this year, Enel has renewed and relaunched its which are implemented locally through the adoption of En-
commitment to conserving water resources by adopting a vironmental Management Systems on all assets for which
new, even more challenging target aimed at reducing spe- the resource is material, as well as through water manage-
cific withdrawal of fresh water. ment plans for hydroelectric plants combined with contin-
uous improvement programs shared with local stakehold-
Specifi c fresh water withdrawal (l/kWh) ers (dam authorities, local administrations, control bodies,
citizens’ committees and NGOs). The measures of impact
mitigation and improvement, defined in the management
0.43(1) plans, are linked to the guarantee of minimum vital flow
and the protection of habitats (see the specific websites
of the Environmental Authorities of the various Countries
where the group is present).
-65%
0.23(2) vs 2017 During 2022, a total of 52.7 x103 ML of fresh water was
0.19
withdrawn for process and closed-loop cooling uses, a
0.15
slight decrease compared with 2021 (55.5 x103 ML), with
the specific fresh water withdrawal value at group level
standing at 0.23 l/kWh (down on last year’s value of 0.25
l/kWh).
2017 2022 2025 target 2030 Enel also pays particular attention to the vulnerability of the
resource, by mapping and constantly monitoring all gen-
(1) Value recalculated net of corporate deconsolidations as at December
(1) V3a1l,o 2r0e2 r2ic.alcolato al netto dei deconsolidamenti societari al 31/12/2022. eration sites located in areas classified as water-stressed
((22)) ITl hvael ovarelu pee fro lr’a tnhneo y e2a0r2 220 r2ic2a rlceoclaaltcou alal tneedtt noe dt eoif pprreecveioduesn ctio drepcoorantseo dlidea-menti socaieretaaris r.i suMltaa ppaprii nag 0 ,2o2f l /kgWehn.eration, thermal, nuclear and re-
consolidations is 0.22 l/kWh.
newable sites falling within water-stressed areas is done
in line with the criteria of GRI 303 (2018) with reference to
The target set by the Group for 2030 is a 65% reduction the conditions of “(baseline) Water Stress” indicated by the
in specific withdrawal of fresh water compared with the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas.(28)
base year 2017.(27) As already stated, both in this case and Among the sites mapped, those defined as “critical” are
as regards the Group’s GHG emission reduction targets, those positioned in water-stressed areas and which pro-
the baseline value for 2017 was recalculated to take into cure significant volumes(29) of fresh water. For these sites,
account the deconsolidations that took place in the re- which are specifically thermoelectric and nuclear plants
porting period (see the chapter “Zero emissions ambition”). that use water resources for process and closed-cycle
The new target of reducing specific fresh water withdraw- cooling needs, water management methods and process
als, turning attention to the most valuable and vulnerable performance are constantly monitored, in order to mini-
water resource, testifies to the even more explicit commit- mize consumption and favor withdrawals from sources of
ment to the protection of natural habitats and the needs of lower quality or which are non-scarce (wastewater, indus-
local communities. The objective takes into account future trial or sea water).
developments envisaged by the European legislation on The percentage of water withdrawn in water-stressed ar-
sustainability reporting standards (proposed standard EU eas was approximately 19.3% of total withdrawals in 2022
EFRAG ESRS-E3 “Water and marine resources”), and the (23% in 2021). In particular, fresh water withdrawals in wa-
results of the risk and priority analysis carried out at Group ter-stressed areas amounted to 12.4 x103 ML, generated
level in line with the main international standards being de- by 7 significant plants, with an 18% reduction compared
fined (TNFD and SBTN). with the 2021 value (15.3 x103 ML), thanks to optimization
The commitment is pursued through the definition, at actions and the reduced generation of some gas plants lo-
Group level, of common strategies and specific objectives, cated in areas with high water stress.
(27) The values of which have also in this case been recalculated to take into account the corporate divestitures that have taken place in the intervening years,
as was done for CO emissions, waste and other atmospheric emissions.
2
(28)GRI 303 defines “water stressed” areas as those in which, based on the classification provided by the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, the ratio, referred to
as “baseline water stress”, between total annual surface and groundwater withdrawals for different uses (civil, industrial, agricultural and livestock) and the
renewable water supply available annually is high (40-80%) or extremely high (>80%). By way of greater environmental protection, those plants located in
areas classified by the WRI as “arid” due to the unavailability of water are also considered as located in water stressed areas.
(29)Plants with withdrawals greater than 100 m3/year are included.
The specific withdrawal of fresh water in water-stressed surfaces: although such volumes are insignificant, Enel has
areas was 0.12 l/kWh in 2022 (0.16 l/KWh in 2021), lower adopted innovative solutions for these plants aimed at
than the general Group value shown above, demonstrat- drastically reducing their water consumption (see the fol-
ing the Company’s priority commitment to adopting, in lowing box on the Roboost project).
water-stressed areas, renewable technologies (solar and In 2020, the Enel Green Power and Thermal Generation
wind) that do not require significant quantities of fresh division launched the WaVE (Water Value Enhancement)
water or, in the case of thermoelectric plants, sea water project in order to reduce the use of water resources in
desalination technologies.(30) all thermoelectric and renewable power generation sites,
The strong expansion of the solar plant fleet, which is nat- and to identify improvement actions, particularly in wa-
urally intended for installation also in water-stressed areas, ter-stressed areas. The project continued in 2022, refining
has nevertheless highlighted potential criticalities for some the mapping of assets and focusing on the effects that
of these plants resulting from the need to clean the pho- climate change may have on the availability of water re-
tovoltaic panels in order to remove dust deposited on their sources.
Roboost Project – Robotic washing
of solar panels
Our solar plants are often installed in arid regions, where
they can benefit from high sun exposure. Although the
water consumption needed for washing the panels is
low compared to that required for thermal generation, it
is nevertheless important to aim at further reducing it in
consideration of the particular context of water scarcity
in these regions. This year, the methods used to wash
our photovoltaic panels were subject to a thorough helping to reduce the water consumption needed to
review, which identified automation as one of the key keep the panels efficient in what is one of Spain’s most
factors for reducing the amount of water needed to arid regions. The installation of other robotic systems is
keep the systems efficient. being planned, with the participation of other suppliers:
In this area, Enel is developing its own “Roboost” one of the first countries involved will be Chile, where
program of new solutions that use autonomous robots all our solar plants are located in desert regions with
to clean the photovoltaic panels in a fully automatic way high water stress, and where saving water resources is
without using water. The expected water saving is 5 l/ therefore of paramount importance. Being completely
MWh. Initial trials were carried out at the Totana plant in electric, the autonomous robots also avoid generating
the Spanish region of Murcia. Here, robots supplied by any greenhouse gas emissions during the panel cleaning
an Italian startup have already been used successfully, operations.
(30) The quantities of fresh water withdrawn and the energy generated in water-stressed areas are calculated taking into consideration both thermoelectric and
renewable plants located in these areas. In the case of renewable plants managed in geographical clusters that include areas with different levels of water
stress, the estimates of the previous quantities were made in proportion to their generation capacity.
WaVE Project – Reduction
of drinking water use in Peru
Enel pays great attention to the use of drinking water in
its industrial processes. Where, due to particular local
constraints or contingent situations, its use is absolutely
necessary, maximum effort is expended to reduce or
eliminate it in the near future.
During 2022, the Malacas gas plant in Peru replaced its
old turbine burners with more modern “Dry low NO”
x
type burners. These enable nitrogen oxide emissions
to be reduced even without the need for injection
of demineralized water, which was being produced
using water from the municipal aqueduct. The saving
obtained from this intervention was approximately 60 benefits of reducing competition for the use of civil
thousand m3/year of drinking water, equivalent to the water infrastructure are therefore significant for the local
annual requirement of a small community. The social community, given the scarcity of water resources.
Optimization of liquid
wastewater treatment
Downstream of internal recoveries and reuses, wastewater for under national regulations and by operating permits.
discharged from the plants is returned to the surface water The potentially polluting substances present in our drains
body. Discharge always takes place downstream of a treat- mainly consist of metallic species (Fe, Al, Si, Ca, Mg) in solu-
ment process that removes any pollutants present to a tion or, to a lesser extent, suspended solids. There are also
level where they will not have a negative impact on the re- no added nutrients (nitrates and phosphates), pesticides
ceiving water body, in compliance with the limits provided or other substances classified as dangerous.
Responsible and integrated management
of water catchment areas
The activities of hydroelectric power plants are an import- cluding numerous cultural, leisure and nature-based initia-
ant element of water management. These power stations, tives, made possible thanks to the presence of the power
which do not contribute to the Group’s water consumption plants. The reservoirs of hydroelectric plants also carry out
in that the water withdrawn is completely returned to its a vital role in the response to the effects of climate change,
source, provide a series of additional services for the Com- increasing the level of protection of the communities sub-
pany compared to the sole generation of renewable ener- ject to increasingly frequent severe flooding and to pro-
gies. A variety of power plants, jointly run by government longed periods of drought. Management of the outflows
and private stakeholders, manages the water resource for from hydroelectric plants is done through specific pro-
multi-purpose services ranging from flood control, drink- grams to ensure the volumes of water required to preserve
ing water and irrigation and firefighting services, to the the ecological state of rivers (minimum vital water flows).
management of river waste held by artificial dams, also in-
Managing waste
3-3 306-1 306-2 306-3
Optimal waste management is a strategic objective of EU proposal EFRAG ESRS E5 “Resource use and circular
Enel’s environmental policy, which results in a constant economy”. These principles are further strengthened and
commitment to reducing its generation, as well as to integrated into Enel’s operations in the Group Guidelines
constantly devising new methods of reuse, recycling and for Waste Management (PL No. 473), which Enel has adopt-
restoration in the perspective of a circular economy of ed in order to collect and share best management practic-
resources, in line with the principles indicated by the new es and rules developed within the Company.
The target of reducing waste from operational
and maintenance activities
For several years, Enel has been pursuing an important tar- The new target commits the Company to a 55% reduction
get of reducing waste produced by direct, operational and in waste produced by direct and contracted O&M activities
maintenance (O&M – Operation and Maintenance) activ- in 2030 compared with the base year 2017.
ities carried out on its plants. The reduction target previ-
ously set, linked above all to the ongoing energy transition Waste production from O&M activities (Mt)
and to Enel’s strategic decision to bring forward the clo-
sure of its coal-fired thermal plants, which accounted for
the majority of waste produced (mainly ash and gypsum), 6.7(1)
has already been reached in the last few years (1.2 Mt in
2020 and 2021, which is the target value previously set for
2030).
Starting this year, this target has been made more chal- -55%
lenging by extending it to O&M waste produced by con- vs 2017
3.4(2)
tractors who, operating on behalf of Enel, generate waste 3.0
which they manage under their own responsibility as pro-
ducers, in compliance with applicable laws, authorizations
and mandatory qualification and management compliance
criteria regularly verified by Enel as the contracting com-
pany.
This new adjustment of the target reflects the principles
of extended responsibility of the waste producer, as rec- 2017 2022 target 2030
ommended by the recently proposed EU standard EFRAG
((11)) VVaalloueris c caalclcoulalatit aeld n neett to o dfe ci odrepcoornasteo liddeacmoennstoi lsidoactiieotnasri aasl 3a1t/ D12e/c2e0m22b.er
ESRS E5 “Resource use and circular economy”. It also
(2) I3l 1v,a 2lo0r2e2 p.er l’anno 2022 ricalcolato al nett o dei precedenti deconsolidamenti societ
makes it possible to highlight, in the context of the ongo- (2) The value for the year 2022 recalculated net of previous corporate de-
consolidations is also 3.4 Mt.
ing energy transition, the growing role within the Compa-
ny of the management of renewable plants and electric- Waste produced in 2022 amounted to 3.4 Mt (correspond-
ity and service distribution networks (for example, public ing to -50% compared with 2017), a moderate increase
lighting networks) with respect to the operational process- compared to that recorded in 2021 (3.1 Mt, also recalcu-
es of thermoelectric plants. lated to include waste produced in O&M activities by con-
The increase in the values reported this year is therefore tractors), mainly as a consequence of the increase in coal-
attributable to the inclusion of O&M waste produced and fired thermoelectric generation in some countries, mainly
managed by our contractors, mostly consisting of excavat- including Italy, following the ongoing international energy
ed earth and rocks and inert materials from civil and road contingency.
construction and demolition, which in some main coun- The vast majority of waste produced (98.3%) is accounted
tries, including Italy, are classified and managed as waste for by waste classified as non-hazardous and mainly con-
and entirely destined for recovery. sisting of inert waste from construction and demolition,
coal ash and excavated earth and rocks. In particular, pro-
duction of ash from coal and gypsum from desulfurization, was respectively 1.02 Mt in 2022 (52% vs 2021) and 0.11 Mt
which is expected to be completely eliminated by 2030 fol- (57% vs 2021).
lowing the planned decommissioning of coal-fired plants,
Waste produced by O&M activities (3.4 Mt)
31.7% Inert construction and demolition waste
0.8%
Coal ash
1.3%
Excavated eart h and rocks
1.7%
Gypsum and sludge from desulfurization
6.0%
Industrial waste
Waste equivalent to urban waste
Other waste
30.3%
28.2%
The overall percentage of O&M waste sent for recovery generation was also recovered to a significant extent, in-
totaled 84.4%. The commitment to a continuous increase cluding coal ash and desulfurization gypsum, which were
in the percentile recovery of waste produced is essen- reused in building works to produce cement, concrete and
tial for an effective transition towards a circular economy bricks according to specific technical and environmental
that minimizes the exploitation of natural resources, in control requirements. In particular, the percentage sent for
accordance with the objectives of sustainable develop- recovery was 80.4% for coal ash and 88.3% for desulfur-
ment and reducing the Company’s environmental impact ization gypsum, improving on the results of the previous
and dependence on ecosystem services. Excavated earth year (respectively 67% and 81% % in 2021). Finally, industrial
and rocks (94.6%) and construction and demolition waste waste deriving from the maintenance of generation plants
(86.9%) were recovered almost in their entirety, deriving and electricity grids was mainly destined for recovery
mainly from the maintenance of power grids as well as (88.1%), as was an even higher percentage (95.6%) of WEEE
of generation plants. Process waste from thermoelectric and metal waste, including iron, copper and aluminum.
Waste produced by construction site activities
The objective of reducing waste produced by the operat- are adopted to maximize their economic value. For more
ing and maintenance activities described above does not details, see the chapter “Circular economy”.
currently include waste deriving from the construction of In 2022, waste produced on the construction sites of new
new renewable plants and the demolition of thermoelectric renewable plants (wind and solar) and by the 3SUN Giga-
plants at the end of their life, as these flows are specifically factory totaled 0.09 Mt, which consisted almost exclusively
linked to the Group’s strategy of decarbonization and en- of non-hazardous waste (99.9%). The same activities also
ergy transition. Above all, these activities are linked to the produced 3.31 Mt of excavated earth and rocks, which was
generation of inert materials, such as excavated earth and entirely reused in situ.
rocks, as well as valuable metal waste, in the case of the By contrast, waste from the end-of-life demolition of ther-
end-of-life decommissioning of plants. Enel is constantly moelectric plants totaled 0.39 Mt. Waste from these ac-
committed to maximizing their recovery. In particular, for tivities consisted of 92.3% non-hazardous waste (mainly
the recovery of waste deriving from the end-of-life de- excavated earth and rocks, inert waste from construction
commissioning of plants, selective demolition techniques and demolition and industrial waste, including mainly met-
of the structures and dedicated management procedures als) with average recovery values of 76%, rising to 93% for
the metallic portion. Programs at country level and dedi- Italy), launched in November 2019 for a duration of approx-
cated initiatives at plant level are aimed at optimizing the imately 40 months and involving a total area of approxi-
management of this waste, with a view to maximizing its mately 80 thousand m2, the amount of waste produced in
recovery and value (see also the paragraph on the circular- 2022 totaled 26.4 kt, of which 98.2% (about 26.0 kt) con-
ity of resources). sisted of demolition aggregates, glass and metals, which
Finally, with reference to the specific redevelopment site was entirely sent for recovery.
of the Enel headquarters in Viale Regina Margherita (Rome,
Improvement initiatives
Among the most significant initiatives, within the Enel For further initiatives, see the chapters “Circular economy”
Green Power and Thermal Generation Division, the com- and “Sustainable supply chain” in this document.
mitment made in 2020 continued with the launch of “Zero As part of the provision of products and services for en-
Waste”, a global project that aims to reduce the amount ergy efficiency, in 2022 Enel X Global Retail continued its
of waste produced and improve the percentages of waste commitment to a sustainable approach that extends to
recovered through the sharing of best initiatives and good the entire value chain, by further extending the require-
practices implemented in the various Countries. The global ment for its suppliers to provide transparent and com-
initiatives carried out in 2022 continued, notably including parable information on the environmental impact of the
the commitment to engage Enel’s contractors through materials and products they supply. In particular, for own-
awareness-raising and training initiatives and the adoption brand products, Enel X Global Retail adopts the Extended
of contractual instruments to incentivize waste recovery. Producer Responsibility (EPR) model, which also includes
Particular attention was also paid to wind and solar tech- the post-consumer phase, by adhering to collective WEEE
nologies, in order to identify possible strategies for the re- collection systems in all the markets in which it operates,
use of components that are subject to replacement and as well as collection of batteries and packaging, and by
disposal at the end of their life, mainly starting from 2030. launching end-of-life management initiatives for mar-
As regards wind technology, the “Wind New Life” project keted products and optimizing their design with a view
for the recovery of wind blades is continuing. Among the to maximizing their reuse and recycling. These initiatives
possible alternatives for their recovery, the project has also notably include:
•
considered the processes of reusing and recovering ener- the ALVA (ALternativas de VAlorización) project in Spain,
gy from the turbine blade materials for concrete produc- aimed at improving performance in the management of
tion. Meanwhile, the “Photorama” project is dedicated to waste from electrical and electronic equipment (see the
the reuse of photovoltaic panels, focusing above all on the dedicated box);
•
most valuable and difficult-to-source materials, which are the agreement between Enel X Italia and CdC RAEE
potentially reusable for the generation of new panels. (Centre for the Coordination of Waste from Electrical
As regards waste produced by grid management activi- and Electronic Equipment), whose partnership enables
ties, in continuity with the programs launched in previous B2C distributors/installers contracted with Enel X Italia
years, Enel is continuing in its commitment to restoring to use the WEEE collection service free of charge, as well
hazardous and non-hazardous special waste, especially as as providing greater control/traceability of WEEE along
regards dielectric mineral oils used as insulators in electri- the entire supply chain to the plants where they are ulti-
cal equipment, which is delivered to authorized companies mately destined;
•
for regeneration or, if this option is not feasible, destined a similar project in Peru, but applied to B2G public light-
for waste-to-energy processes. Also ongoing are the ini- ing, with the objective of both extending the life cycle
tiatives launched in the various countries for the sustain- of light bulbs that are still functional and the restoration
able replacement of first-generation smart meters and the treatment of spent bulbs through the WEEE RECOLECC
recovery of their constituent materials. consortium in order to recycle the raw materials, thereby
creating value and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
Spain – ALVA Project 2022 results
(ALternativas de VAlorización)
61
With the aim of applying the principles of the circular
economy and in compliance with environmental regula- installers
tions on waste, Enel X Global Retail has developed a project who have signed the
agreement with ECOTIC
for reusing and recycling electrical and electronic equip-
ment (EEE) products or components taken back from cus-
103
tomers.
The project applies to electronic devices marketed by Enel t WEEE collected
X which are subject to return, in the case of rentals, or re- (93–96% material
placement of EEE installed at the customer’s premises (1- recovery / 1–3%
energy recovery)
for-1 takeback). The objective of the project is to ensure
virtuous management and traceability of products/waste
in order to prioritize EEE reuse operations over disposal. 119
The project engages installers, a qualified repair compa- t CO
2
ny and the ECOTIC consortium in managing waste electri- equivalent saved
cal and electronic equipment (WEEE) in order to improve
circularity, by providing full traceability of the installation/
replacement process, and to increase the reuse and resto-
ration percentages of WEEE in treatment plants, and con-
sequently to reduce CO .
2
Protection of soil, subsoil
and groundwater
3-3
Enel is committed to the continuous application of the safety measures and subsequent remediation, are execut-
most advanced technologies available and best practices ed according to intervention plans shared with the com-
in order to minimize the possible environmental impacts petent authorities and by resorting to specialist, qualified
deriving from its activities, using international standards companies that are able to promptly restore the level of
as a benchmark even where the required environmental quality suitable for the intended use of the area (industrial,
protection is less stringent. Among the areas of preven- commercial, residential etc.). Particular focus is on power
tion, the highest level of attention is paid to the protection, plants falling within large industrial hubs. In order to miti-
monitoring and remediation of soil, subsoil and groundwa- gate further the risk connected to the detention and con-
ter in the areas where plants and generation and service sequent potential uncontrolled release of substances that
facilities are present in all Countries. can have an impact on the environment, numerous proj-
The protection of the environment matrices guides every ects have commenced for their progressive substitution,
phase of each asset’s life, from design choices to con- for example, verifications under way on the use of vege-
struction, operation and end-of-life management. Both table (hence biodegradable) oil, replacing the traditional
active and passive protection and safety measures will dielectric oil of mineral origin.
be used in the project phase to prevent and, in any case, Within the context of the energy transition launched by
minimize the risk of uncontrolled or accidental contact of Enel, particular importance is given to projects for convert-
potentially polluting substances (such as fuels, reagents, ing decommissioned plants, with the aim of hosting new
liquid and waste flows) with soils and subterranean waters. renewable generation and energy storage plants, in order
During plant operations, every process undergoes compli- to reuse the industrial areas, some common parts of the
ance controls as well as ongoing upgrades as required by plant, and the main infrastructures. In this way it is possible
the Environmental Management Systems to prevent and to reduce the environmental impacts deriving from dem-
minimize the risks of any potential environmental con- olition and new construction activities, as well as the con-
tamination. At the same time, control plans are executed sequent social and economic impacts on the surrounding
to monitor the condition of the previous environmental communities and stakeholders. In order to optimize the
matrices. In the event of an accident, for example the ac- management of plant decommissioning projects, in 2021
cidental spillage of polluting substances, the timely ap- Enel adopted dedicated Guidelines (“Environmental issues
plication of the Stop Work and Emergency Management management in power plants decommissioning”), with
Policies makes it possible to prevent or minimize the risk of the purpose of guaranteeing a standardized approach to
environmental impacts, rigorously complying with the pro- identifying, preventing and managing environmental as-
visions and the legal obligations of the various countries. pects related to the decommissioning of power plants.
For the end-of-life management of power plants, once These Guidelines provide global guidance on applying best
they have been made safe and prior to them being dis- management practices in relation to all environmental as-
mantled and the area reassigned for new development pects, including soil and groundwater management.
projects, Enel proceeds to verify further the environmen- With a view to continuous improvement and minimizing
tal quality of the soil, subsoil and groundwater in the areas the possible environmental impacts deriving from de-
where the plant is located, according to the authorized commissioning activities, at the end of 2022 a further set
provisions and legal requirements of the various countries. of Guidelines was also issued (“Sustainable Repurposing
In the event of potential contamination phenomena, char- Model”) in order to ensure the increasingly sustainable
acterization of the environmental matrices in the areas end-of-life management of plants (see the dedicated box
potentially affected and, if necessary, implementation of below).
Habitat restoration to protect
tina frogs (a protected species included in the IUCN Na-
native species tional Red List).
The habitat restoration project envisaged the recreation
of a semi-open humid environment (azonal Pharagmites
The area affected by the environmental restoration proj- australis reed bed habitat) fed by a channel that conveys
ect was previously used to store combustion ash from the runoff surface water from the reservoir caps, in addition
“Eugenio Montale” thermoelectric plant in La Spezia, Ita- to planting native arboreal and herbaceous essences
ly. Starting from 2020, following a project authorized by characteristic of submerged wetlands and humid and
the competent bodies, a waterproof top cover (cap) was perhumid environments. This habitat, in addition to pro-
created for the two reservoirs on the site, aimed at mak- viding a safe place during the reproduction period for a
ing them permanently safe while also guaranteeing land- species in need of protection such as Rana dalmatina,
scape restoration by planting and grassing the area. The also plays an irreplaceable ecological role by providing a
capping activity, completed in July 2022, was carried out place of rest, shelter and food for numerous other animal
in conjunction with a habitat restoration project aimed at species.
restoring and maintaining biodiversity in the area, which For further details, please refer to the chapter “Our com-
is considered “core”, due to the presence of Rana dalma- mitment to a just transition: leaving no one behind”.
Sustainable
uous monitoring, through KPIs, of environmental per-
Repurposing Model formance on important aspects such as the reduction
of atmospheric emissions, the recovery and recycling of
materials and waste, the efficient use of water and the
The sustainable repurposing model aims to promote the improvement of soil and biodiversity will allow us to con-
standardized adoption of sustainable practices during all tinue on our path towards an increasingly efficient energy
end-of-life disposal activities of plants and assets. The aim transition. The proposed model includes, in particular, the
is to create synergies with the future redevelopment of the identification and application of sustainable principles and
sites, while maximizing the positive environmental and so- practices related to the management of the environmental
cial impacts of the entire process. matrices of soil and groundwater, such as the restoration
To achieve and monitor these objectives, a set of guide- of reclaimed areas in compliance with the morphological,
lines, a catalog of sustainable practices and specific KPIs vegetative and landscape characteristics of the surround-
have been created. In order to launch and promote the ing area, as well as the creation of habitats aimed at pro-
model, some pilot projects on decommissioned plants moting biodiversity and ecosystem services.
have been launched in Chile, Spain and Italy. The contin-
Energy efficiency
3-3 302-1 302-3
Energy efficiency in production processes
For Enel, the efficient use of energy is a constant commit- gressively reducing single-phase power lines, constructing
ment that extends to the entire value chain and which is pur- additional power lines to alleviate the overload on existing
sued through the implementation of operational excellence lines, using low-loss transformers, boosting the grid by using
programs across the different Business Lines, both for oper- conductors with a greater cross-section, and rephasing pri-
ations and in buildings. In particular, targeted interventions mary transformer substations. Finally, the realization of new
are aimed at maximizing the efficiency of power generation 1t rLaettn esrf otor mStaekre shotaldteiorsns that help2 rOeudru sucseta tinhaeb llee pnrgotghre ossf low-volt- 3 Materialit
plants as well as improving the operational efficiency of dis- age lines, which are characterized by higher levels of loss.
tribution networks.
Energy consumption is mainly represented by fossil fuels, to
operate thermal power plants (with coal accounting for 19% Consumption of primary energy from
and natural gas 45% in 2022), and by uranium, to operate renewable and non-renewable sources
nuclear power plants (27%). By contrast, a smaller amount (,000 TJ x103)
of energy consumption is related to the operation of power
generation plants relying on renewable sources (biomass and 2,000
geothermal). Total direct consumption of energy for electric-
ity generation in 2022 amounted to 1,108,069 TJ (26.5 Mtoe),
which was basically in line (0.8%) with the energy consump- 55 55
55
tion of fuel recorded in 2021 as a result of the increase in 1,000
1,045 1,053
thermoelectric generation from coal (64,571 TJ, up by 46% 949
on 2021), as well as from diesel and nuclear to a lesser ex-
tent, replacing generation from natural gas (-79,774 TJ, down
15% on 2021). The Group’s energy intensity, which provides a 0
2020 2021 2022
measure of its operational efficiency, was 4.81 MJ/kWh in
eq
2022, slightly down on the previous year (-0.36%). Activities
to optimize the grid structure continued in 2022, allowing From non-renewable sources From renewable sources
for a significant reduction in grid losses. These include pro-
Energy efficiency and electrification products
for customers
The electrification of final consumption has become a stalled about 78 thousand energy-efficient products, in-
central element of Enel’s strategy. Its intrinsic efficiency cluding condensing boilers, air conditioners, air-to-water
makes it the key partner in achieving sustainable goals heat pumps and photovoltaic plants (some with storage
globally. In line with this approach, several initiatives across systems), while in the B2B (Business to Business) sector, the
our businesses were strengthened and consolidated in photovoltaic plants managed by Enel X Global Retail for its
2022 to support commitments towards clean electrifica- customers in Brazil, Spain, Italy, North America and Korea in
tion. In 2022, the interventions carried out by the Enel X 2022 made possible a generation of distributed renewable
Global Retail Business Line in relation to efficiency, tech- energy equal to about 42 GWh, in addition to the energy
nological innovation and reduction of CO emissions in savings obtained by the cogeneration and trigeneration
2
the sectors in which the division operates, were strength- plants managed by Enel X Global Retail in Italy and Spain.
ened and consolidated. In the public lighting sector, work Overall in 2022, Enel X Global Retail’s efficiency and elec-
performed in 2022 by Enel X Global Retail in Italy, Spain, trification products and services enabled its customers to
Chile, Colombia and Peru resulted in cumulative savings of avoid the emission of approximately 130 thousand tons of
approximately 177 GWh. In public transport, Enel X Global CO , equivalent to an environmental benefit of more than
2
Retail participated in the commissioning of more than 500 7 million trees per year, values calculated by applying algo-
new electric buses in Chile, Colombia, Spain, Italy and the rithms validated by an internationally recognized certifica-
United Kingdom in 2022. tion body according to the principles identified in the UNI
For its B2C (Business to Consumer) customers in Italy, EN ISO 14064-2:2019 standard.
Spain, Chile and Romania, in 2022 Enel X Global Retail in- For further details, see the chapter “Clean electrification”.
Environmental legal disputes
2-27 2-4
At December 31, 2022, the number of legal proceedings Iberia. The amount of fines imposed or paid in 2022(31) was
pending was 168 across the whole Group. The main en- approximately 1.8 million euros. In addition, 22 non-mone-
vironmental disputes related to Italy, Latin America and tary sanctions were issued.
(31) The relevance threshold for fines is 10,000 USD, therefore only sanctions that individually exceed this amount are reported.
Managing human rights
Material topics (I level) Plan SDG
• People management,
development and
motivation
Double
• Sustainable supply chain
materiality
Human rights
Below the 2022 results related to the targets of the previous 2022-2024 Sustainability Plan, the resulting progress and the tar-
gets of the 2023-2025 Sustainability Plan, which may be redefi ned, added to, or surpassed with respect to the previous Plan.
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
Defi nition of a strategic framework Defi nition of framework achieved Implementation of action plans
16 E
relating to the management of through update of existing resulting from the defi nition
17 human rights in business operations, framework to keep abreast of of the strategic framework on S
implementation of the ensuing the evolution of the international human rights management in
G
action plans, analysis of the results reference frameworks and of business operations, analysis of
and tailoring of the inputs to update our operating, organizational results, tailoring of the inputs
the initial framework including and managerial processes and updating of the strategic
any evolution of the international framework (also in view of the
landscape evolution of the international
context)
Goals Progress
I Industrial E Environmental S Social
G Governance T Technological New Redefi ned Outdated Not in line In line Achieved
sthgir
namuh
gniganaM
For furt her information on the targets included in the Sustainability Plan, please refer to the Human Rights Content Index.
N.A. = not applicable
Managing
human rights
Managing human rights
2-12 2-23 2-24 2-25 2-26 3-3 407-1 408-1 409-1 411-1 413-1 413-2 418-1
Our pledge to respect human rights is the guiding princi- of people, businesses, and society at large.
ple that permeates all our activities, and it is fully integrat- We have adopted the approach of the UN Guiding Princi-
ed into our corporate purpose and values, since we belong ples on Business and Human Rights, setting up a human
to the territory, and we are an essential element in the lives rights management system based on three pillars:
OUR DUE DILIGENCE
OUR COMMITMENT ACCESS TO REMEDY
PROCESS
It includes: It includes: It includes:
• • •
our strategic approach to human identifi cation of salient issues our commitment to provide
rights in business operations • appropriate remedy in case of impacts
management of salient issues
• •
our public commitment: the Human • grievance channels information
relationship with stakeholders
Rights Policy •
(workplace, procurement and redressing in legacy projects
•
embedding of the commitment into: business relationships, communities,
• operating policies and procedures customers and cross-cutt ing and
• training topics and practices specifi c issues)
•
our governance
Our commitment
2-24
Our strategic approach
Protection of the environment and natural resources, cli- We measure our commitment by acting in such a way that
mate action, and contribution to a sustainable economic those who work with us do so in just and favorable condi-
development are strategic factors in the planning and de- tions, that their health, safety and wellbeing are pivotal to
velopment of our operations, alongside our broader com- creating value and that the rights of the communities with
mitment to accelerate the decarbonization and electrifi- which we interact, as well as those of our customers, are
cation processes, in accordance with the Paris Agreement respected.
and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
The mitigation of the effects of the increasing environ- A strategic approach aimed not only at mitigating risks in
mental degradation and of climate change cannot take a reactive way, but at managing them proactively by identi-
place without taking into account their social impact and fying the relative opportunities and exploiting the potential
that is why we believe that transition to net zero should be for growth and the creation of shared value.
fair and inclusive.
Ernesto Ciorra
Chief Innovability® Offi cer
We promote the growth of a constructive dialogue that can really help -
in an eff ective way - with tackling the challenges brought by the social
impacts of decarbonization strategies in line with the Paris Agreement,
and we have committ ed to a just transition that does not leave anyone
behind.
Respecting Human Rights Continuous innovation and embedding of circularity principles are
is a fundamental element also cornerstones for building a competitive, inclusive and sustainable
to empower business model. Indeed, a sustainable business conduct based on
sustainable progress. international reference standards is key to unlock multiple competitive
advantages, such as increasing talent att raction & retention,
strengthening corporate resilience, meeting customers & civil society
expectations, improving access to stock & capital markets, shaping
regulation & promoting system advocacy.
Our public commitment: the Human
Rights Policy
In 2013 Enel has adopted a Human Rights Policy, approved ple are treated fairly and valued for their uniqueness, as
by the Board of Directors, which has been updated in 2021 well as focusing on protection of the environment since a
to keep abreast of the evolution of the international refer- safe, clean, healthy and sustainable environment is integral
ence frameworks and of our operating, organizational and to the full enjoyment of a wide range of human rights.
managerial processes. The principles have been identified based on their rele-
The Human Rights Policy leverages commitments already vance to our business activities and relationships, as well
included in several codes of conduct like the Code of Eth- as on the outcome of a consultation held with relevant
ics (adopted as early as 2002), the Zero Tolerance of Cor- stakeholders (people within our organization, as well as
ruption Plan and the global compliance models while at suppliers, human rights experts, think tanks, NGOs, oth-
the same time strengthening and expanding their content. er companies) held in line with the ‘’UN Global Compact
The content of our policy refers to internationally recog- Guide for business: how to develop a Human Rights Policy’’.
nized human rights as defined in the International Bill of Listening and taking account of stakeholders’ perspec-
Human Rights and in the International Labor Organiza- tives in internal decision-making is, indeed, an integral part
tion conventions underlying the Tripartite Declaration of of our commitment to respecting human rights. For further
Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and So- details, please refer to “Materiality analysis process and re-
cial Policy and applicable to business practice. sults for 2022”, “Our commitment to a just transition: leav-
The commitment also reaches out to: ing no one behind” and “Engaging communities”.
•
the 10 Principles of the Global Compact that we have Our commitment extends to supporting heightened re-
joined as an active member since 2004; sponsible business conduct also through European ref-
•
the United Nations Pledge Letter we signed in 2019, in erence organizations, like Eurelectric, the utility-sector
which the United Nations asked companies around the one, through which, during 2022 we have continued to
world to commit to a just transition and the creation of participate to the process concerning the development of
decent green jobs (for further details, please refer to “Our the draft Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive
commitment to a just transition: leaving no one behind”); (CSDDDD).
•
the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Other participations include the Solar Stewardship Initia-
framework, set out in the guiding principles on business tive, launched by Solar Power Europe, the Global Alliance
and human rights, and the OECD guidelines for multina- for Sustainable Energy, an independent global alliance, as
tional enterprises, two of the main international soft law well as the working groups within the Just Transition Think
reference standards. Lab, promoted by the United Nations Global Compact, the
The policy addresses employment practices and commu- Business Commission to Tackle Inequality (BCTI), promot-
nity relations and society through 12 principles. Specifi- ed by the World Business Council for Sustainable Devel-
cally, they establish our rejection of practices like modern opment (WBCSD), and CSR Europe Leaders Hub for an
slavery, forced labor, and human trafficking, to name a few, Inclusive Green Deal, selected group of members of CSR
and our commitment to promoting diversity, inclusion, and Europe. For further details, please refer to “Our commit-
equal treatment and opportunity, guaranteeing that peo- ment to a just transition: leaving no one behind”.
Policies and procedures
Integration of the commitment across relevant internal Hereafter a summary classified by stakeholder and the-
functions and processes is key to prevent and mitigate matic group of the key internal policies and external
adverse human rights impacts as well as fostering decent frameworks integrating our Human Rights Policy.
work, inclusive economic growth and sustainable develop-
ment.
H
U
M
AN RIGHTSPOLI
C
Y
Health and safety
Extra Checking on Site
TA X STRATEGY Stop work
Harassment in the Cyber security
workplace
Physical and digital
Diversity and inclusion C ON accessibility
H
A
RS
Remuneration RTEROF THE P E
Environment and biodiversity Code of Ethics
Zero Tolerance of Corruption Plan
Anti-corruption
Global compliance programs
Internal policies
Enel people Suppliers Communities Customers
Thematic frameworks
Security and human rights
3-3 410-1
National regulations generally set for security services em- For providers included in the high reputational risk cate-
ployed to protect companies’ personnel or property that gory, we also run additional checks regulated through a
they are assigned only to public forces, or to private forces specific procedure (Counterparty Analysis), a further in-
in the absence of legislative provisions. strument in reducing and mitigating, as much as possible,
In both cases, our commitment is to promote that security actual or potential risks.
forces act in a way consistent with the applicable nation- Overall security management is entrusted to a dedicated
al laws and international rules and standards and in line function at Group level (Global security) which acts in co-
with the voluntary principles on security and human rights ordination with relevant security functions at country level.
(principle 2.2.3 of our Human Rights Policy). Main activities are collecting and analyzing information to
Security services providers are selected following our map potential security risk and related management, also
overall procurement and monitoring process during the in cooperation with external stakeholders like reference in-
life of the contract and are therefore subject to the same stitutions and other critical infrastructure operators.
ESG screening and contractual clauses as any other sup- As for protection services for Enel people travelling in
plier. For further details, please refer to “Sustainable supply high-risk countries, providers are selected based on spe-
chain”. cific contractual frameworks managed by the Global Se-
curity function.
Training
2-29
Training and awareness-raising processes dedicated to In 2022, 84% of Enel people attending courses on sustain-
both Enel people and business partners is a key part of em- ability, confirming 2021 trend. Specifically, training hours
bedding respect of human rights in business operations. were equal to approximately 1.9 million, with a per capi-
Each year we carry out specific training to ensure that any- ta average of 28 hours. Training on human rights totaled
one working with us is aware of the role they play in en- some 7 thousand hours thanks to the online course that
suring respect of human rights while doing business. Such exemplifies the key role human rights play in business
training also includes specific communication initiatives practice through simple stories and best practice sharing.
aimed at internal and external stakeholders to foster prop- On top of this, we run induction activities on human rights
er understanding of the commitment undertaken through and business to selected audiences to promote internal
the Human Rights Policy. awareness on our commitments and to stimulate improve-
The training is deployed in different formats and content in ment of its embedding into the operating practices. Activ-
order to meet every need, including: ities for 2022 include:
• •
courses on environmental protection; a training session within the Executive Procurement
•
courses on occupational health and safety; School, organized with the support of a leading universi-
•
courses on diversity and inclusion; ty and dedicated to our global procurement talents;
• •
courses on relationships with communities; a deep-dive with all our country sustainability managers;
• •
courses on anticorruption; a training session dedicated to a selection of people
•
digital training courses on issues closely linked with hu- working with us in renewable operations.
man rights;
•
training initiatives on best practices closely linked with
human rights.
Governance
Respect of our commitment in terms of human rights is cable laws and regulations;
•
an integral part of our corporate decision-making process. the Innovability® Function and, namely, the Sustainabil-
We rely on an organizational and corporate governance ity Planning and Performance Management and Human
model, based on principles of transparency and account- Rights unit, is responsible for:
–
ability, that sets out well-defined tasks and responsibilities managing the positioning on human rights and en-
of the main governance bodies. Namely: suring that it is correctly reflected in any internal and
•
the Board of Directors, acting through the Control and external communication activity;
–
Risks Committee and the Corporate Governance and integrating respect of the principles included in our
Sustainability Committee, which carry out preparatory Human Rights Policy in corporate processes and
work aimed at making proposals and providing advice, is planning and coordinating due diligence activities on
responsible for examining the main company rules and the related management system, with the support of
procedures of relevance with respect to stakeholders other units relevant to the process;
–
and connected to the Internal Control and Risk Manage- reporting to the Control and Risk Committee and
ment System. These include our Human Rights Policy, to the Corporate Governance and the Sustainability
our Code of Ethics, our Zero Tolerance of Corruption Committee on the implementation of the due dili-
Plan and our global compliance models. Both commit- gence process and on the management of human
tees are in charge of providing recommendations for rights-related activities;
–
changes to the Board for approval, if necessary, in order reporting annually within the Group’s Sustainability
to bring such procedures in line with national and inter- Report how we respect human rights commitments.
national best practices and with modifications in appli-
Our process of due diligence
2-23
As required by the United Nations Guiding Principles on plan to strengthen the management system that ensures
Business and human rights and by the OECD Due Diligence we comply with the commitments undertaken in our Hu-
Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct, we have set man Rights Policy. Our process runs on a three-year cycle
up a process, which we have also codified in a global inter- format, and involves both internal stakeholders by coun-
nal procedure, covering the entire value chain across our try of operation and function and external ones through
geographic footprint aimed at identifying if any of our op- human rights experts and key stakeholders. We have just
erating procedures and processes require an improvement completed the 2020-2022 cycle.
H U
M
AN RIGHTS
D U
E
ST A K E H O LDERS’ ENGAGE M E ND I L I G
Perceived T E
risk assessment N
C
E
Gap analysis
Improvement plans
Implementation and
monitoring
ACCESS
TO
REM E D Y
Perceived risk assessment
(identification of salient issues)
Identification of salient human rights issues allows us to tions and peer companies.
better understand where to focus our efforts and resourc- Outcomes of the assessment were then plotted into a hu-
es for the potential impacts that require the greatest ur- man rights risk heat map based on the severity and the
gency, taking into account the relevant stakeholders’ per- likelihood of a potential violation.(1)
spective. Hereafter, a summary of the most significant results:
•
The 2020 assessment run in our countries of operation risks connected to bribery practices and to impact on
with regard to labor, local communities, and environ- the environment ranked as “high-priority”;
•
ment-related rights involved stakeholders and experts in risks connected to labor practices violations (freedom
several fields, including civil society, and academic insti- of association and collective bargaining, rejection of
tutions. Specifically, consultations were held with direct forced and child labor, just and favorable working con-
and indirect workers, representatives of indigenous pop- ditions, occupational health and safety, diversity and in-
ulations and local communities, trade unions, local institu- clusion) and to potential impacts on local communities
(1) Risks are classified based on the assessment scale: acceptable risk (minimum level), risk to control, high-priority risk, high risk (maximum level).
ranked as “to be monitored”. Protection of local commu- widespread presence of such groups in that geograph-
nities’ rights ranked higher in Latin American countries, ical region.
confirming the results of the previous cycle, given the
Child labor
Forced or compulsory labor
Freedom of association
Community
Environment
Zero Tolerance of Corruption
(ZTC)
Occupational health and safety
Diversity
Just and favorable working Probability
conditions
In addition, we periodically engage with our stakeholders environment, and people, including human rights impacts.
and sustainability experts through the materiality anal- For further details, please refer to “Materiality analysis pro-
ysis, a process that allows to identify material topics, i.e., cess and results for 2022”.
the most significant impacts of the company on economy,
Management of salient issues
Besides the identification of salient issues, our manage- Gap analysis
ment system includes:
1. a gap analysis aimed at assessing our operating and Practices and policies adopted to respect human rights
risk monitoring processes and identifying any potential across our geographic footprint were then assessed based
shortfall; on the human rights potential risks heatmap (please refer
2. development of improvement plan actions to meet the to “Assessment of perceived risk – identification of salient
gaps identified at the previous step; issues“) across relevant internal functions and processes
3. implementation of actions and monitoring of progress. to identify any existing gap.
The assessment was based on the four parameters of the
Thanks to this process we assess 100% of the policies and UNGPs operating principles:
•
operating procedures put in place to identify the risks of public commitment to respect human rights;
•
our direct and indirect operations along our entire value adoption of human rights due diligence process;
•
chain and of our new business relations (e.g., acquisitions, preparation of a plan of action to remedy any gaps iden-
mergers, joint ventures, etc.). tified by the due diligence process;
•
Hereafter, the main outcomes of the 2020-2022 cycle. adaptation to match local context and regulations.
ssensuoireS
4.5
4.0
3.5
3.0
4.5
2.5
2
1 2 4.5
2.0
2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5
Group with the broad aim to get their strategic perspec- tentially mitigate impacts is robust and should enable to
tives on business and human rights and assess awareness adequately manage any identified risks, which consid-
and perception of related risks and impacts and how they ering the United Nations Guiding Principles framework
are managed. ranking definitions means management of salient issues
is adequate.
Below, a summary of key evidence:
Human Rights Average System to protect
Principles SDG Main policies and procedures to protect human rights perceived risk human rights
Labor practices
Enel is committ ed to respecting the freedom and collective
bargaining rights of its workers. In part icular, Enel recognizes
their right to set up or join organizations formed to defend and
promote their interests; it recognizes their right to representation
Freedom of association and by union organizations or other forms of representation, opposing
8 To control Robust
collective bargaining any action of discrimination in the exercise of this right; it
recognizes their right to engage in collective bargaining as the
preferred instrument to establish the contractual conditions and
to regulate relations between company management and trade
unions.
Rejection of forced labor 8 The contracts considered overall regulate labor conditions, clearly To control Robust
defi ning workers’ rights (working hours, remuneration, overt ime,
Just and favorable working indemnity, benefi ts). Each worker is guaranteed a translated
conditions 8 employment contract in his/her native language. Human resources To control Robust
management systems and procedures guarantee the absence of
minors in the workforce. Also apprenticeship projects and school-
Rejection of child labor 8 To control Robust
work experience models are carried out.
Diversity and inclusion 5 10 For details, please refer to “Empowering Enel people” To control Robust
Health and safety 3 For details, please refer to “Occupational health and safety” To control Robust
Community and society
1 3
4 5
Community relations For details, please refer to “Engaging communities” To control Robust
7 9
10
Environmental impacts 13 For details, please refer to “Conservation of natural capital” High priority Robust
Corruption 16 For details, please refer to “Values and pillars of corporate ethics“ High priority Robust
Average perceived risk: average perceived risk levels iden- The results are expressed in percentage and represent the
tified in the countries under analysis. current maturity of the management systems with respect
Reference scale of risks: 1. High risk; 2. High-priority risk; 3. to the specific Human Rights areas.
Risk to control; 4. Acceptable risk. Reference scale of performance values: Robust (75%-
100%); Good (50%-74%); Sufficient (25%-49%); To be im-
proved (0%-24%).
Improvement plans • Brazil: definition of an operating instruction to assess
management of human rights of partners and sub-tier
The residual risk identified at the previous step led to the suppliers;
•
definition of the necessary remedies which were then in- Chile: i) implementation of a communication and aware-
cluded in the improvement plan both at country and at ness-raising campaign on the Human Rights Policy
global level, therefore ensuring uniformity of processes aimed at all relevant stakeholders; ii) making the policy
and policies across the Group’s activities. available to all relevant stakeholders, with particular fo-
Hereby a few examples of the actions defined. cus on those with no access to digital media (i.e., indige-
•
Italy: inclusion of the link to our Human Rights Policy nous populations).
in the local business development procedures of Enel As for labor practices, the assessment revealed they are
Grids; perceived as “low risk” given also the compliance of the
•
Argentina and Russia(2): implementation of training related control measures and processes with our internal
and internal communication activities aimed at raising policies and with the main international standards. Howev-
awareness on the importance of respecting the commit- er, we identified several minor areas of improvement that
ments included in the Human Rights Policy; are summarized in the table below.
Human Rights Principles Business Lines Countries Areas of improvement
Freedom of association and Sustainability/People and Greece, Development of training programs on human rights aspects, with a
collective bargaining Organization Australia, special focus on the relationship with social partners and definition
India, Brazil of working conditions during bargaining procedures
Rejection of forced labor People and Organization/ Romania, Integration of control procedures and definition of further remedies
Sustainability/ Brazil in the case of intimidation and threats
Communications
Rejection of child labor Global Procurement/Legal Russia(2), Chile, Intensification of training and monitoring of the supply chain
and Corporate Affairs Brazil
Diversity(3) Sustainability, People and Mexico, Each action plan includes activities on the topic of disability based
Organization Romania, on the main findings resulting from the Value for Disability project
Brazil
Implementation and due diligence activity on five pilot countries: Brazil, Chile,
monitoring Colombia, Italy, Iberia.
Indeed, as instructed by the OECD Guidelines for multi-
The consolidated improvement plan for the 2020-2022 national enterprises, in addition to standard assessments
cycle includes 170 actions, covering 100% of operations an enterprise may already employ, additional internal as-
and sites. At the end of 2022, we have achieved over 80% sessments may support a deeper understanding of the
of the plan. potential risks or actual adverse impacts with respect to
Full effectiveness of the actions implemented will be as- an enterprise’s own activities.
sessed through the gap analysis that we will be run in 2023 The outcome of the analysis confirmed the main results
when the new cycle will begin. Worth noting is that the next obtained by the overall due diligence process on the man-
cycle will be based on the refreshed Human Rights Policy agement system just described above in terms of robust-
content. ness of labor practices issues and engagement with local
As a further tool to measure the effectiveness of our hu- communities. They also confirmed the key role awareness
man rights management system and governance structure raising campaigns play.
across operations, in 2022 we carried out an asset-level
(2) On October 12, 2022, the Group has closed the sale of its entire stake in PJSC Enel Russia.
(3) Diversity issues also include the assessment of aspects relating to equitable remuneration and non-discrimination.
Relationships with stakeholders: Inclusion
human rights in practice (Human Rights Policy, “Employment practices”,
principle 2.1.2 “Respect for diversity and non-
discrimination”)
2-29
We promote principles of diversity, inclusion, and equal
treatment and opportunity, and we are committed to
The workplace guaranteeing the right to working conditions that are re-
spectful of personal dignity, as well as creating a working
We are committed to respecting and promoting inter- environment where people are treated fairly and valued
nationally recognized workers’ rights in all the countries for their uniqueness. We are committed to protecting the
where we operate. This means rejecting harmful practic- physical and psychological integrity and individuality of
es like modern slavery, forced labor, and human traffick- each person, and we oppose all forms of behavior that re-
ing, to name a few, and promoting diversity, inclusion, and sult in discrimination in relation to gender, age, disability,
equal treatment and opportunity, and guaranteeing that nationality, sexual orientation, ethnicity, religion, political
people are treated fairly and valued for their uniqueness opinions, and all other forms of individual diversity, or that
throughout the entire value chain of the businesses in is detrimental to the person and their convictions or pref-
which we operate. erences. Accordingly, we promote people’s freedom of ex-
All of this has also been codified into the Charter of the pression. We do not tolerate physical, verbal, visual, sexual,
Person, a memorandum of understanding adopted in Italy or psychological harassment such that results in a working
in 2022 and agreed with some trade union organizations. environment that is denigrating, hostile, humiliating, intim-
The Charter of the Person originates in a cultural con- idating, offensive, or unsafe.
text of transformation in which individuals are becoming For further detail, please refer to “Empowering Enel peo-
aware of the importance of human relationships as a true ple” and the “Value for Disability” box in this chapter.
engine of full realization. In the work carried out with the
trade unions we look for the first time at the worker, who Health & Safety and well-being
is not only and merely passive subject of protection and (Human Rights Policy, “Employment practices”,
recognition but an individual who, in a new awareness, principle 2.1.4 “Health, safety and well-being”)
pursues a renewed balance between all its needs and in- We consider health, safety, and psychological, relational,
clinations. and physical well-being of individuals as the most pre-
cious asset to be protected in any moment, at work, as
Training and people empowerment well as at home and during leisure time. We commit to
| Upskilling and reskilling disseminating a robust health, safety, and well-being cul-
(Human Rights Policy, “Employment practices”, ture across our organization, to ensure that workplaces
principle 2.1.5 “Just and favourable working are free from health and safety hazards and to promot-
conditions”) ing behaviors oriented towards work-life integration. We
We believe in the importance of professional orientation actively commit to foster personal and organizational
and training for the development of our people and their well-being that are enablers of the engagement and in-
skills, even the more so in situations impacted by the ener- novative potential of people. We do, so, for example, by
gy transition that prompt requalification and enhancement providing benefits and services that support the integra-
of potential by way of reskilling and upskilling programs to tion of private and working life (for example, support, in-
foster a just transition. cluding financial one, for childcare and maternity or for
Facing the undergoing rapid evolutions means setting up the care of the elderly).
an inclusive working environment, aimed at enhancing the For further detail, please refer to “Empowering Enel peo-
human being by placing him at the center of an ecosys- ple” and “Occupational health and safety”.
tem in which lifelong learning, well-being, productivity and
safety can reinforce each other, contributing to the fullest
realization of the person, in a perspective of ever greater
centrality.
For further detail, please refer to “Our commitment to a
just transition: leaving no one behind”.
Industrial relations Communities
(Human Rights Policy, “Employment practices”, (Human Rights Policy, “Communities and
principle 2.1.3 “Freedom of association and Society”, principles 2.1.2, 2.2.3 and 2.2.4
collective bargaining”) “Respecting the rights of communities”,
We protect the right of the people working with us to form “Respecting the rights of local communities”,
or take part in organizations aimed at defending and pro- “Respecting the rights of indigenous and tribal
moting their interests. Likewise, we respect their right to peoples”)
be represented, within the various working units, by unions
or other forms of representation elected in accordance Our commitment testifies how much we are aware that our
with the legislations and practices in force in the varying activities can have a direct or indirect influence on the com-
countries where they work. Collective bargaining is for us munities where we operate and why we believe that respon-
the favored instrument for setting contractual conditions sible community relations constitute a pillar of our strategy.
of the people working with us as well as regulating rela- Indeed, individual conditions, economic and social devel-
tions between management and unions. opment, and general well-being of collectivity are strictly
The Group industrial relations activities continue to be car- connected: we therefore commit to conducting our capi-
ried out according to the model provided for in the Global tal expenditure in a sustainable manner and to promoting
Framework Agreement (GFA) signed in Rome in 2013 with cultural, social and economic initiatives for the local and
the Italian industry federations and the global federations national communities involved to advance social inclusion
IndustriALL and Public Services International, and which through education, training and access to energy.
is still recognized as a reference best practice for Euro- We take due regard for the cultural, social, and economic
pean and non-European multinationals. The agreement is diversities from one country to another and require that
inspired by the best and most advanced systems of trans- each stakeholder deals with us in accordance with them,
national industrial relations of multinational groups and in- with a particular attention to conflict affected and high-risk
stitutions of international reference. contexts and vulnerable groups like local, indigenous and
For further detail, please refer to “Empowering Enel peo- tribal ones and have committed to respect the Interna-
ple”. tional Labor Organization (ILO) Convention no. 169 on the
rights of indigenous peoples.
In developing our projects, we commit to engage all the
Procurement activities and relationships relevant stakeholders, including indigenous and tribal
with business partners communities as we believe active community engagement
(Human Rights Policy) throughout the process is essential.
For further detail, please refer to “Engaging communities”.
Besides guaranteeing the necessary quality standards, our
partners are requested to adopt best practices in terms of
human rights and working conditions, occupational health Customers
and safety, environmental responsibility, and respect for (Human Rights Policy, “Employment practices”,
data protection by design and by default. principle 2.1.2 “Respect for diversity and non-
They are also an integral part in our development and discrimination”, “Communities and Society”,
awareness programs: each person must feel that they are principles 2.1.2, 2.2.6 and 2.2.7 “Respecting
responsible for their own health and safety as well as for the rights of communities”, “Privacy”,
the others. “Communication”)
In terms of specific actions, we secure that our procure-
ment processes are based on criteria that promote sus- We are committed to a just energy transition for everyone
tainable development and social stability, as well as on the also through the offer of innovative and inclusive services
principles of free competition, equal treatment, non-dis- for our customers, regardless of their age, for weak, des-
crimination, transparency and rotation that go on top of titute, marginalized, vulnerable people, paying particular
complying with local legislation. 100% of the purchasing attention to people with disabilities.
product categories are preliminarily evaluated in terms of We undertake to always respond to suggestions and com-
risk, on the basis of human rights, environmental, social plaints made by customers and consumer associations,
and economic criteria. making use of appropriate and timely communication sys-
In addition, we support our partners to increase their resil- tems (e.g., call center services and email addresses), and to
ience also in line with the promotion of practices based on consider the needs of all our customers, paying once more
a just and inclusive transition. particular attention to people with disabilities.
For further detail, please refer to “Sustainable supply chain” We have also committed to ensuring that our products and
and “Occupational health and safety”. services are designed to be accessible for all and do not
compromise the safety and physical integrity of our cus- Specific salient issues
tomers, as far as reasonably foreseeable.
Institutional and commercial communications shall be Forced labor in the supply chain:
non-discriminatory and respectful of different cultures, the solar sector experience
while also not adversely affecting the most vulnerable Since 2013, our commitment against forced or compulso-
audiences, such as children and the elderly. This means, ry labor and any form of slavery and human trafficking has
amongst other, that contracts and communications ad- been formally set out in principle 2.1.1 Rejection of forced
dressed to our customers should be clear and simple, and compulsory labor and of child labor in our Human
drawn up using a language as close as possible to the one Rights Policy.
normally used by the people for which the message is in- We are committed to contributing to reaching ambitious
tended to, be exhaustive, available on our website and ac- climate targets, which implies the need to electrify end
cessible in order to be inclusive of vulnerable categories. uses as much as possible while supporting such electri-
For further detail, please refer to “Clean electrification”. fication with a massive deployment of renewable energy
production.
Photovoltaics (PV) represents a key technology to en-
Cross-cutting issues able the energy transition in the European Union (EU) and
worldwide, and we believe the EU needs to have strategic
Privacy PV production inside its borders and to build the related
We respect the confidentiality and right to privacy of our supply chain.
stakeholders and we are committed to the correct use of the Aware of the challenge ahead of us and of expectations
information and data relating to the people working in our around business contribution to human development also
organization, to our customers and to any other stakeholder. through the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Develop-
Data protection and processing are an important challenge ment, which go beyond specific legislation, our supplier
for us in the era of digitalization and market globalization. We qualification and contract-awarding processes include
process personal data in compliance with the fundamental rigorous technical, financial, legal, environmental, health
rights of data subjects and we abide by the rights and prin- and safety, human rights and ethical integrity require-
ciples recognized in law, notably respect for private and fam- ments, applied consistently in all markets.
ily life, home location details and communications, personal Moreover, we are pushing for the suppliers to adopt a
data protection, freedom of thought, conscience and religion, traceability system to collect information on the supply
freedom of expression and information. chain, as well as seeking to visit the companies involved
We also undertake to monitor all third-party companies that along the supply chain.
may be in a position to use customers personal data. To this Finally, we carry out a number of initiatives to improve
end, there are dedicated clauses in contracts with partners transparency across the supply chain both individually and
that use personal data to carry out specific activities, such as working jointly with other utilities, our suppliers and sec-
sales services or customer satisfaction surveys. tor associations (i.e., Global Alliance for Sustainable Energy
and Solar Power Europe, to name a few). For further detail,
Innovation please refer to “Our commitment to a just transition: leav-
Innovation and sustainability are inseparable parts of our ing no one behind”.
strategy, together with the spirit of service and care for the On top of this, we are working to get to the roots of the
well-being of people and the society in which we operate. issue. Indeed, we are convinced that if we leverage on the
That is why, in line with the Open Power vision, we also pro- momentum for renewables, thanks to the existing R&D
mote an open innovation approach to face the challenges and industrial know-how still present in the EU and with
of the energy transition. The open innovation model en- support from the EU itself, a new roadmap can be created
ables the connection of all the areas of the company with toward a European industry for solar panels.
startups, industrial partners, small and medium-sized enter- That is why we welcomed the public consultation(4)
prises (“SMEs”), research centers, universities and entrepre- launched in January 2022 by the European Commission on
neurs, also through the use of crowdsourcing platforms. the EU solar energy strategy that gathered input on the
The aim is to foster the adoption of solutions that can main bottlenecks and barriers to investment under existing
enhance our sustainable profile, such as favoring circular rules in the ‘Stakeholder consultation – Synopsis report’’
economy approaches, which help reducing pressure on published in May. The results of the consultation confirmed
the use of resources and on supply chains, ensuring inclu- that a number of respondents supported the EU manufac-
sivity, and trying to deal with social issues. turing of solar panels as a way of ensuring that PV products
For further detail, please refer to “Innovation”. installed in the EU apply high environmental standards, are
(4) See: https://ec.europa.eu/info/news/public-consultation-feed-new-eu-strategy-solar-energy-2022-jan-18.
not produced by forced labor and reinforcing supply chain itate access to rapidly growing markets within the conti-
resilience.(5) nent and globally.
For detail on how we are acting to diversify the geographic
In addition, the EU Industrial Strategy published by the footprint of the solar supply chain, please refer to “Clean
European Commission in Spring 2021 identifies solar as electrification” and “Our commitment to a just transition:
one of the key industrial ecosystems. The European supply leaving no one behind”.
chain will thus need to be strengthened in order to facil-
(5) See: https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/better-regulation/have-your-say/initiatives/13338-EU-solar-energy-strategy_en.
Access to remedy
2-25 2-26
We continuously monitor whether stakeholders are affect- We ensure access to remedy through grievance mecha-
ed by our company’s business operations, and if any im- nisms to enable people — inside or outside the company
pact is identified, we put in place remedial actions. — to flag that there is an issue and to seek a meaningful
response.
Grievance mechanism
–
In line with the third Pillar of United Nations Guiding Prin- by writing to: Enel SpA - Audit Function - Code of Eth-
ciples, we have set up multiple channels of access to rem- ics. Via Dalmazia, 15 - 00198 Rome, Italy.
•
edy, including: several processes and tools available to the communi-
•
a whistleblowing channel, available to internal and ex- ties in the influence area of our operations;
•
ternal stakeholders, through: customers complaints or information channels (via mail,
–
the web or toll-free number shown on the Enel Code website, toll-free number).
of Ethics web page; Hereby, a summary description of how they work.
Whistleblowing channel
Grievances are managed following a specific process cod- mous reports’ policy, illustrated also in our Human Rights
ified in the ‘Management of anonymous and non-anony- Policy, and summarized hereafter:
Sending Analyzing Acting upon an Management
a grievance a grievance eff ective violation and monitoring
Maximum The Audit Function Should a violation The Group has in place
confi dentiality receives and analyses be ascert ained, the an information system
and anonymity the grievance and relevant corporate to manage and monitor
is guaranteed to activates the necessary functions defi ne the grievance received and
every stakeholder. verifi cations necessary actions and ascert ained violations
Stakeholders may send specifi c action plans, if
grievance through necessary
physical and online
channels
The key elements of the mechanism are: ples contained in the Human Rights Policy is ascertained,
•
anonymity and protection against any form of retalia- the Audit function defines recommendations to imple-
tion; ment the corrective actions. The relevant corporate func-
•
protection against groundless allegations made mali- tions thus define the actions to take in accordance with
ciously to harm or cause prejudice to individuals; the applicable national legislation provisions.
•
uniformity of treatment at Group level, in compliance Furthermore, the Audit Function reports the above viola-
with company policies and local regulations. tions or any violation recorded during auditing activity as
Identity of stakeholders sending a grievance remains well as the ensuing necessary actions to:
•
confidential, unless otherwise required by the law. the Control and Risks Committee, the Chairman of the
Whenever, following a grievance, a violation of the princi- Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of
Enel SpA, who assess if the Board of Directors should Access channels are both physical and digital. Moreover,
be informed about the most significant cases; there are also channels at local level and this ensures ac-
•
the corporate bodies of directly or indirectly controlled cessibility to all potentially affected stakeholders in their
subsidiaries for the issues of competence. own language.
For further detail, please refer to the chapter “Values and
pillars of corporate ethics”.
Communities
We provide access channels for reporting by people who numbers, or, in the case of isolated rural communities,
need to contact us, using the tools and means available local leaders who are available to periodically collect any
locally, such as local teams or a specific person, toll-free complaints.
Customers
Customer complaints are managed through dedicated specific matter of the complaint and, above all, in prevent-
channels and analyzed by a specific working group so that ing the underlying causes that have led to the complaint.
the most suitable actions are taken, both insofar as to the
Redressing in legacy projects
3-3 413-2 EU22 DMA (former EU20)
Hereafter, an illustration of the actual(6) impacts relating to
a few legacy projects.
CHILE
1 thermal coal-fired power plant | decommissioned in 2022 | actual impact
Plant name: Bocamina II | Location: Coronel region of Bío Bío | Size: 350 MW
1 hydro power plants | in operation | actual impact
Plants names: Ralco | Location: Alto Bío Bío | Overall size: c. 700 MW
CHILE | BOCAMINA II The second unit (350 MW), shut down at the end of Sep-
tember 2022, was built in an area characterized by high ur-
Actual adverse impact banization and social vulnerability that generated impacts
Land management and relocation. on the housing units around the construction site.
With such closures, after the one involving the Tarapacá
Affected stakeholders plant in 2019, we have become the first power company
Families living in the area surrounding Bocamina’s II unit in the country to stop using coal for its generation oper-
which was adjacent to the first unit. ations, 18 years ahead of the original 2040 goal set within
Background Chile’s 2019 National Decarbonization Plan and in line with
The plant was part of the coal-fired thermoelectric com- our 2022-2024 Strategic Plan and our 2030 Vision, which
plex of Bocamina, whose first unit (128 MW) shut down at place decarbonization and the acceleration of the energy
the beginning of 2021. transition at the core.
(6) Impact occurred.
Remedies identified v. Just Transition agreement with Coronel Municipality
Overview that will allow local government to invest in strength-
Engagement with the community has led to the develop- ening healthcare and education services, along with
ment and the implementation of a broad series of initiatives completing the construction of a new school and park.
for the social, economic and entrepreneurial development b. Socio-economic development:
of the affected community, as well as an ambitious revege- i. support to artisan fishing in the form of dedicat-
tation project to transform the 10-hectare area of the plant’s ed borrowings (defined jointly with the local fishing
ash landfill, which will no longer be used, into a native forest. community);
In addition, in line with circular economy principles, we are ii. support to local businesses, in the form of dedicated
studying various alternatives to reuse the facility’s assets in funding.
order to provide new life to the site and create development
opportunities for the area. Grievance
An extensive analysis was carried out in 2017 with the sup- In line with the United Nations Guiding Principles on busi-
port of a company with considerable experience in this area ness and human rights, both physical and online grievance
to review how the original relocation process was carried channels have been made available to the community. In
out with the purpose of remediating any gap vs internation- 2022, approximately 1,000 complaints have been received,
al existing standards. of which 85% have progressed through to the manage-
Among the gaps that emerged as more evident are the in- ment phase and have been handled.
equality and partiality of the agreements previously reached
both with the persons concerned and with local authorities, For a broader perspective, please refer to the box dedicat-
as well as the misalignment with international standards on ed to Bocamina included in the chapter “Our commitment
resettlement. to a just transition: leaving no one behind”, as well as Enel
The new plan involves approximately 1,400 families, most Chile’s Sustainability report and the following webpage:
of them classified as belonging to vulnerable groups by the https://www.enel.cl/en/sustainability/creating-shared-val-
Ministry of Social Development. ue/bocamina.html.
Key actions identified relate to:
a. preservation of the social and human capital of the com- CHILE | RALCO
munites;
b. socio-economic development. Actual adverse impact
Land management and relocation.
Key lines of work
a. Preservation of the social and human capital of the Affected stakeholders
communities: Families living in indigenous land.
i. remedy construction defects of some of the new Background
homes which were identified thanks to a joint techni- The area of Alto Bío Bío where the plants are located re-
cal committee involving Enel, the affected communi- cords a historical setting of the indigenous Pehuenche
ty and the Center of Investigation and Technologies populations whose presence in the area of influence of the
of Construction (CITEC) - Universidad del Bío Bío; plant amonts to c. 3,000 people, equivalent to 800 families
ii. quantify and compensate the impacts on the qual- spread across 11 communities.
ity of life of the families affected by construction The construction of the Ralco plant led to the flooding of
defects and the impact associated to 12 churches almost 3,500 hectares of indigenous land, and involved the
which were not involved in the resettlement process; relocation of 81 families (about 400 people) who moved
iii. finance the reconstruction of the historical school in to the territories of the indigenous communities of Ayin
Coronel, “Rosa Medel” as agreed with the town hall Mapu and El Barco, located respectively in the municipali-
and with the community; ties of Santa Bárbara and Alto Bío Bío.
iv. requalify new and pre-existing areas adjacent to the To support this relocation, we have ensured, for 10 years,
plant through the: social services, housing and a plan of continuity assistance
•
building 12 community headquarters in various (PAC) to affected families, addressing historical issues and
new neighborhoods; establishing a permanent dialogue with all communities in
•
painting of a 3,500 square meter mural - one of the area.
the largest in Chile - along the external perimeter
of the Bocamina power plant, through the narra- Remedies identified
tion of the history of Coronel and its inhabitants Overview
(involving dozens of neighborhoods and organiza- The engagement with the local community has led to the
tions); definition of improvement plans concerning:
a. education; and tourism, amongst other.
b. economic development to support the self-depen- c. Cultural identity programs:
dence of local communities; measures to support indigenous communities in the
c. cultural identity programs; development of cultural initiatives aiming at promoting,
d. risk reduction initiatives in emergency situations; consolidating and supporting cultural practice, like tra-
e. access to energy. ditional ceremonies, language conservation, dissemi-
nation of culture and other.
Key lines of work d. Risk reduction initiatives in emergency situations:
a. Education for children and young people living in our agreement with the Municipality of Alto Bío Bío to tack-
area of influence: le the multidimensional poverty of local population´s
i. access and permanence in formal education consid- dwellings and reduce risks in emergency situations
ering that the average number of years of school- through skills enhancement and training of vulnera-
ing in the area is 6.5 years, well below the number ble groups to support their response in the occasion
of years of compulsory education in Chile. This is of emergencies linked to volcanos eruption and forest
made possible by assigning scholarships that cover fires.
school fees, room and board, study materials. More e. Access to energy:
than 560 students participated in such education aid Collaboration with the Municipality to maintain 120 pho-
program during 2022, 56% of which female and 97% tovoltaic panels that belong to families residing in the
from the indigenous Pehuenche community; Alto Bío Bío area so that they can access a clean and
ii. transport support, access to technology, and schol- sustainable electricity supply.
arships for secondary and higher education;
iii. involvement of intercultural Pehuenche assistants in Grievance
the teaching process; In line with the United Nations Guiding Principles on busi-
iv. design and construction of the Quepuca Ralco ness and human rights, both physical and online grievance
school. channels have been made available to the community. In
b. Economic development to support the self-depen- 2022, 24 complaints have been received, of which 79%
dence of local communities: have been connected to human rights. All of them have
i. improvement of productive facilities and equipment; progressed through to the management phase and have
ii. skills enhancement through training in agriculture been handled.
COLOMBIA
1 hydro power plant | in operation | actual impact
Plant name: El Quimbo | Location: department of Huila | Size: 400 MW
COLOMBIA | EL QUIMBO Background
The plant is located in the Department of Huila and its
Actual adverse impact building contributed to the increase in the energy secu-
Land management and relocation. rity and the stability of the Colombian electricity system,
as well as promoting the growth of the area of influence in
Affected stakeholders line with the Department of Huila development plans.
Families resident and people working or having commer-
cial and service activities in the area of influence of the
plant.
Remedies identified Tesalia Municipality
Overview Installation of sugarcane molasses processing plant
Engagement with the community started in late 2014 and This initiative will benefit small and medium-sized sug-
has led to the development and the implementation of a arcane growers, with the construction of a sugarcane
multi-year plan including a broad series of initiatives, main- molasses processing plant and the planting of 15 hect-
ly related to: ares of new sugarcane, with the aim of increasing pan-
a. environmental management training; ela manufacturing and improving the living conditions
b. socio-economic development. of families.
Enel will cover more than 80% of the total investment
Key lines of work (equal to close to 65,000 euros).
a. Environmental management:
i. environmental awareness-raising activities; Livestock infrastructure improvement
ii. protection of biodiversity and nature: This project is aimed at improving livestock infrastruc-
•
large scale ecological restoration of >11k hectares ture, sanitary conditions for bovines and increased milk
of tropical dry forest (for further detail, please refer production, with the supply of silage or concentrated
to “Conservation of natural capital”). feed, generating profitable and sustainable livestock,
b. Socio-economic development: and thus improving the socio-economic condition
Activities focused on providing support on technical of the benefited farms belonging to the ASOGATE,
issues related to production processes and how to im- ASOGAPAC and FOGAGRO associations.
prove their efficiency. Enel will cover more than 80% of the total investment
During the last 10 years, more than 30 projects were equal to close to 90,000 euros, with the Tesalia munici-
carried out in the municipalities of Altamira, Tesalia, Pai- pality and the associations covering the remainder.
col, Garzón, Gigante and El Agrado for an investment of
higher than 2 million euros that was beneficial to more Strengthening of the productive system of cocoa
than 15,000 families in the department of Huila. families
The most significant cooperation agreements relate to The initiative relates to the delivery of machinery and
the implementation of concerted agricultural production specialized fertilizers, with the objective of increasing
plans with nearly 90 resettled families in Garzón, Altamira, cocoa production by 75%.
El Agrado and Gigante. With an investment of more than Enel will cover 80% of the total investment of over
800,000 euros, the beneficiaries improved and increased 80,000 euros.
the production and marketing of different foods such as
corn, wheat, lemon, milk, cocoa, tomato, and a wide vari- Strengthening the production and marketing of
ety of fruits, also including produce for self-consumption. cherry tomatoes
Hereby, a few examples of the main agreements signed The project was achieved in 2022 and involved more
in 2022. than 90 producers from the department of Huila, al-
lowing the cultivation of around 5,500 seedlings of this
Garzón Municipality product and the generation of close to 3,400 euros of
Planting of 100 hectares of coffee jointly with income.
plantains The initiative was run in cooperation with three asso-
The project aims at getting coffee varieties resistant to ciations Agroprosur, Asocapa and Asosanjosé and Enel
rust and with higher yields and will benefit 100 coffee has contributed 51% of the total investment (equal to
growers who will receive coffee seedlings, fertilizers and over 80,000 euros) while the remainder was covered
agricultural equipment. In addition, technical, social and by the Municipality of Tesalia, the Agroprosur, Asocapa,
environmental monitoring will be carried out to guaran- Asosanjose associations, and the hydrocarbon compa-
tee the sustainability of their crops and increase coffee ny Hocol (represented by the Fundación del Alto Mag-
production. dalena).
Enel will cover approximately 40% of the total invest- Three greenhouses were built together with two seed-
ment (equal to more than 250,000 euros). beds where sowing, vegetative phase and subsequent
transplantation of the fruits are currently carried out. In
Optimization of the local marketplace meat module addition, the beneficiaries were trained in permaculture
electrical appliances and agroecology, good agricultural practices (run by the
The project aims at revamping electrical networks built National Learning Service - Sena) and attended work-
more than 20 years ago and will benefit more than 70 shops on harvest management, and marketing.
merchants. Enel will contribute c. 80% of the total in-
vestment (equal to more than 110,000 euros).
Paicol-Huila Municipality Grievance
Bovine genetic improvement In line with the United Nations Guiding Principles on business
This project, that will benefit 94 farmers, seeks to con- and human rights, both physical and online grievance chan-
tribute to the livestock development of the region, en- nels have been made available to the community. In 2022,
hancing milk production rates. together with the im- 604 complaints have been received, of which 100 were just
provement of the genetic quality of the cattle. requests of information. The remainder have progressed
Total investment is equal to close to 140,000 euros, 30% through to the management phase and have been handled.
of which will be covered by Enel.
Other relevant information
Cocoa Effect Some local inhabitants/fishermen have started “acciones
This is a long-standing project which involves the United de grupo” and “acciones populares”, currently pending,
States Agency for International Development (USAID), declaring that the revenues from their activities have been
the Luker Foundation, Luker Chocolate, the Saldarria- reduced due to the construction of the power plant and
ga Concha Foundation and Eafit University and is aimed that the activities of filling the El Quimbo dam alleged-
at strengthening cocoa production through training of ly impacted downstream fishing and its environment. For
cocoa producers, environmental assessments instru- furhter detail, please refer to the paragraph on El Quim-
mental to cocoa production, support to cocoa trees bo, in the “Contingent assets and liabilities” section of the
cultivation (through all stages of development), assis- 2022 Consolidated Financial Statements. Further initiatives
tance to fight pests and diseases. and information are also available in the 2022 Enel Améri-
At the end of 2022, we have started activities to extend cas Sustainability Report.
the program to a larger number of cocoa farmers.
Other projects under development
WINDPESHI (La Guajira)
1 wind power plant | under development
Plant name: Windpeshi, | Location: La Guajira | 200 MW
Background Windpeshi.
The plant will contribute to the country’s energy mix diver- Both actions have benefited 3,000 people belonging to
sification. the Wayuu indigenous population;
ii. education:
•
Stakeholders in the area of influence agreement signed with SENA, Servicio Nacional de
Indigenous communities resident in the municipalities of Aprendizaje which provides technical training and cer-
Maicao and Uribia, belonging to the department of La Gua- tifies the level of ability achieved by the affected com-
jira a region characterized by a significant presence of in- munities. Actions concerned job training on basic
digenous communities, which represent 20% of the overall construction works and support to entrepreneurship
population in Colombia. development through marketing, sales and handicraft
courses aimed at empowering communities to develop
Outcome of the stakeholder engagement process their own business;
•
Overview joint project with Artesianas de Colombia in the Wayuu
La Guajira is a region with very high rates of unsatisfied ba- territory concerning their artisanal weaving crafts.
sic needs. Key actions identified relate to socio-economic The training activities benefited 560 people overall, 270
development through the agreement with SENA and 290 in the joint
project with Artesanías de Colombia.
Key lines of work
a. Socio-economic development: Other
i. access to drinking water: We also reached an agreement with the University of La
•
two public basins have been built to provide drinking Guajira for the creation of an intercultural manual, which rep-
water to the communities in the area of influence; resents a fundamental tool for understanding the dynamics
•
an aqueduct that was not working was rehabilitated, and particular aspects of the ethnic communities.
providing water to the communities on the road to
Midelt, Boujdour & Essaouira
3 wind power plants | 1 in operation and 2 under development
Sizes: 210 MW, 300 MW and 270 MW
Background port) and Essaouira, a 270 MW wind plant located about 28
In March 2016, a consortium between Enel Green Power km from Essaouira city.
and the Moroccan company Nareva, in partnership with
the supplier Siemens Renewable Energy, was awarded the Stakeholder engagement
project for the development, construction, and manage- Midelt
ment of wind plants. 2015: preliminary analysis of the social, economic, and envi-
The energy produced by the wind farm will be sold to ONEE ronmental context (“SEECA”) to identify relevant socio-eco-
that will use this energy for the benefit of all final users, nomic issues and specific needs of local communities;
including the local population. 2019: environmental and social impact assessment (Envi-
ronmental Social Impact Assessment - ESIA);
Status up-to-date 2020: new SEECA and consultation.
In operation: Midelt, a 210 MW wind plant located about 20
Km from the Midelt city center. Key actions implemented
Under construction: Boujdour, a 300 MW wind plant locat- a. Environment (sustainable building site and during oper-
ed approximately 180 km south of Laayoune Port (Marsa ations):
i. assessment and mitigation of environmental impacts, with the knowledge, values, skills and strategies
including CO emissions, waste, and water, by means of: necessary to implement the above environmental
2
•
photovoltaic mini-grid plus storage used to power citizenship.
basecamp, auxiliary services of the base camp and e. Healthcare during the operations phase:
turbines erection; i. setting up of a medical facility (caravan) made avail-
•
stand-alone PV modules used to power prefabri- able to 1,400 students coming from surrounding
cated buildings/containers and streetlights; schools for specialist examinations of various types
•
utilization of energy efficient technology (LED (general practitioners, dentists, ear, nose, and throat
lamps, solar water heating system) to reduce elec- doctors, etc. plus provision of eyeglasses when
tricity consumption; needed) as a mean to fight children school dropout
•
water recycling solution installed in all water systems; caused by health issues.
•
implementation of a biodiversity preservation plan
aimed at protecting the local ecosystem, among Boujdour
•
which plantation of local trees and species nearby 2015: preliminary analysis of the social, economic, and
the building area. environmental context (“SEECA”) to identify relevant so-
b. Occupational health and safety: cio-economic issues and specific needs of local com-
i. application of highest standards, in line with Enel’s munities, including infrastructure development, educa-
customary practices. tion, healthcare, poverty issues, social services, and pro-
c. Socio-economic development during construction and tection of cultural heritage;
•
operation & maintenance: 2019: environmental and social impact assessment (En-
i. training and hiring of more than 250 people for vironmental Social Impact Assessment - ESIA);
•
non-qualified works, all belonging to the Midelt com- 2020: human rights due diligence(7) and a new SEECA
munity; and consultation involving vulnerable people groups
ii. maximized hiring of local small and medium-sized who self-identified as Saharawi.
businesses for auxiliary services (including transporta-
tion, cleaning, catering, supply of materials, etc). This Key actions implemented
was aimed also at supporting the local economy partic- a. Environment (sustainable building site and during oper-
ularly affected by the consequences of the pandemic; ations):
iii. food basket provision to the most vulnerable local Please refer to Midelt description.
families. b. Labor, with regards to occupational health and safety:
d. Promotion of education, including during the opera- i. application of highest standards, in line with Enel’s
tions & maintenance phase: customary practices.
i. classes dedicated to approximately 1,400 beneficia- c. Socio-economic development (during construction and
ries of 6 local schools in Amersid & Mibladen rural operation):
communes, held by local volunteers that covered i. training and hiring of Saharawi people:
•
topics related to renewables and the operation of setting up of a training centre in the base camp with
wind plants; training in civil and electrical capabilities aimed at
ii. setting up of a yearly scholarship granted to one filling the local gap of expertise thus creating the
university student coming from the community of opportunity of using such skills also in the future;
•
Midelt; hiring of c. 200 people for non-qualified works, of
iii. implementation of a sustainability and environmental which >90% from the local Saharawi community;
•
education program called AKABAR AL MAARIFA to hiring of technical staff for O&M management, tur-
train trainers at schools in Midelt and educate kids at bine service provider and substation maintenance,
primary schools with the aim to: security services and housekeeping;
•
develop ecological and social awareness, environ- ii. maximized hiring of more than 100 local small and
mental sensitivity, behaviors and skills; medium-sized businesses for auxiliary services (in-
•
promote an active participation in community is- cluding transportation, cleaning, catering, supply of
sues from early childhood so to build an environ- materials, etc.). This was also aimed at supporting the
mental citizenship since primary schools; local economy particularly affected by the conse-
•
introduce, in addition, an effective training and pro- quences of the pandemic;
fessional development program to equip teachers iii. ad hoc infrastructures for the needs of people and
(7) In line with UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and in collaboration with an independent no profit organization with an international ex-
pertise in business and human rights.
of the local small businesses in the area of influence tection of cultural heritage;
•
of the project: 2021: environmental and social impact assessment (ESIA).
•
during civil works, new sections of road were built
as well as requalifying existing ones (c. 60km). This Key actions implemented
activity allowed to reconnect main roads with graz- a. Environment:
ing areas, thereby benefiting the pastoral commu- Please refer to Midelt and Boujdour description.
nities in remote areas; b. Occupational health and safety:
•
due to the newly available renewable electric energy i. application of highest standards, in line with Enel’s
generated by the Boujdour plant, the local electricity customary practices.
connection to the city of Boujdour is being reinforced; c. Socio-economic development during construction:
iv. support to local Saharawi camel nomads through the i. training and hiring of people employed for civil and
provision of water tanks and cisterns; electrical works;
v. food basket provision to the most vulnerable local ii. hiring of 210 people belonging to the local communi-
families. ty for non-qualified works;
d. Promotion of education: iii. maximized hiring of local small and medium-sized
i. Education and vocational training programs designed businesses for auxiliary services (including transpor-
to fight against primary school dropout, filling the mis- tation, cleaning, catering, supply of materials, etc.).
match between training and employment opportuni- d. Promotion of education and other services:
ties, providing knowledge about renewable energy. i. training dedicated to approximately 400 beneficia-
The initiatives involved approximately 1,000 beneficia- ries of local schools, held by local volunteers that
ries of 11 local schools, and related specifically to: covered topics related to renewables and the safety
•
entrepreneurship masterclass: Workshop with IN- measures for the construction of wind plants;
JAZ ALMAGHRIB to get young people from the col- ii. installation of safety fences for local schools near the
lege acquainted with business activities; roads;
•
‘It’s My Business’: with INJAZ ALMAGHRIB aimed at iii. rehabilitation of a local religious saint visitors’ place
fostering entrepreneurship skills of middle school to the benefit of the local community.
students through gamified activities and multiple
examples of nationally and internationally well- Grievance
known entrepreneurs; Management system for all three plants in line with the Unit-
•
company program: with INJAZ ALMAGHRIB ad- ed Nations Guiding Principles on business and human rights.
•
dressing all stages of business creation and mak- Set up: once received, complaints are registered, ana-
ing young high school students able to participate lyzed and classified from 1 to 3 (score range takes into
to different competitions, at local, national and re- account repetition, severity; 1 is the lowest, 3 the highest).
•
gional level (MENA); The analysis leads to the identification of the possible
•
classes held by local volunteers of Nareva and Enel solution. Once the solution is agreed, the complaint is
Green Power Morocco covering topics related to considered as solved.
•
renewables and the operation of wind plants; Tools available to the community: complaints may be
•
setting up of a yearly scholarship granted to one received through on-site suggestion boxes, traditional
university student coming from the community of mail, email, by phone, company representatives during
Boujdour. their staff visits.
e. Healthcare: The language used is “Arabic” and when a member of
i. setting up of a medical facility (caravan) made avail- the community is not able to write and talks a dialect, a
able to 1,000 students coming from surrounding translator is identified within or out the building site.
schools for specialist examinations of various types
(general practitioners, dentists, ear, nose, and throat Midelt | Complaints managed concerned:
doctors, etc. plus provision of eyeglasses when 1. Request on using local labor from the community.
needed) as a mean to fight children school dropout Solution agreed: hired non-qualified workers as described
caused by health issues. at point c., i. of the Midelt key actions implemented.
2. Request for using local SME’s.
Essaouira Solution agreed: contractors, with the support of local
•
2015: preliminary analysis of the social, economic, and stakeholders, launched a beauty contest to select local
environmental context (“SEECA”) to identify relevant so- service providers from the city of Midelt as suppliers for
cio-economic issues and specific needs of local com- the services and equipment needed as described at
munities, including infrastructure development, educa- point c., ii. of the Midelt key actions implemented.
tion, healthcare, poverty issues, social services, and pro-
Boujdour | complaints managed concerned: at point c., ii. of the Essaouira key actions implemented.
1. Request for using local labor from the Saharawi commu- 2. Request for using local SME’s.
nity. Solution agreed: contractors, with the support of local
Solution agreed: hired non-qualified workers as described stakeholders, launched a beauty contest to select local
at point c., i. of the Boujdour key actions implemented. service providers from the city of Essouira as suppliers for
2. Request for using local SME’s. the services and equipment needed as described at point
Solution agreed: contractors, with the support of local c., iii. of the Essaouira key actions implemented.
stakeholders, launched a beauty contest to select local 3. Request of repairing water pipes that were damaged.
service providers from the city of Boujdour as suppliers for Solution agreed: the water pipe was repaired to ensure
the services and equipment needed as described at point water supply continuity while starting the building of a
c., ii. of the Boujdour key actions implemented. brand new one.
4. Request to reduce the lifting of dust by trucks.
Essaouira | Complaints managed concerned: Solution agreed: contractors started irrigating roads using
1. Request for using local labor from the community. recycled water or pumped from the sea so as to reduce
Solution agreed: hired non-qualified workers as described lifting of dust during transportation.
VALUE4DISABILITY
With the Enel Value4Disability project people with disabilities
lead the way: not only inclusion but empowerment
Our commitment to inclusion, as defined in our We also joined Business for Inclusive Growth (B4IG), a
Human Rights Policy, relies on considering pro- global coalition of CEOs from global companies fighting
actively the needs and priorities of individuals inequalities. Through its strategic partnership with the
and society at large. OECD, B4IG interacts with governments around the world
In addition to ensuring that no one is left behind, this ap- to promote inclusive growth.
proach encourages the generation of new ideas and is an
essential condition for creating sustainable value in the
long term.
Since 2019, we are part of Valuable 500, a global orga-
nization involving 500 CEOs and their companies, whose
mission is to drive lasting change for more than 1 billion
people around the world who live with a disability.
In 2020, therefore, we launched the Enel Value4Disabil-
ity global project, which aims to empower Enel people
and customers with disabilities, enable the environment
of startups dealing with assistive technologies and make
digitally accessible both the main web portals used by Enel
people/customers and the software application develop-
ment, testing and release processes.
In 2022 we achieved important results, also thanks to the
dissemination of the project both on internal communi-
cation channels (magazine and corporate intranet) and
through external communication initiatives (National Geo-
graphic, Financial Times, influencers and interviews and
articles on the topic of inclusive business on specialized
sites).
For Enel people
•
Globally, there are 2,129 people with disabilities, of which initiatives to ensure physical and relational accessibility
over 70% in Italy. in Spain and Chile and to promote digital accessibility in
We make sure to listen to their needs thanks to “focal Colombia;
•
points” present in all countries where at least one col- hiring and internships of people with disabilities in Italy,
league with a disability is present. Spain and Brazil, integration initiatives in collaboration
This allows us to develop dedicated initiatives both locally with local institutions in Chile, Argentina and Mexico, in-
and globally, in line with our Human Rights and Diversity and clusive staff research in collaboration with research and
Inclusion Policies. In particular, these initiatives allow to car- selection platforms in Romania, Argentina, Peru and Co-
ry out work in complete autonomy, through tools, services lombia;
•
and methodologies that can create an inclusive working pilot project, in Brazil, of tutoring in a process of on-
and relational environment for all, and to raise awareness boarding, listening and development in which more than
and train all people, with particular focus on specific roles 140 people with disabilities are participating and which
more affected by these issues (new hires, managers, people involves about 100 managers and about 30 people and
& business partners, customer contact points). business partners.
Empowering initiatives include: Awareness and training initiatives include:
• •
Global Inclusive Travel services to ensure an inclusive ex- design of an initiative at global level to spread awareness
perience of stay and travel for business trips of colleagues about the Design for all principles application to busi-
with disabilities (for example, information on accessibility ness processes and contexts so as to foster an inclusive
services in hotel facilities, activation of travel assistance mindset in Enel’s people;
•
service, travel accompanying services). 47% of colleagues the videos “Our ability”, to learn everyday stories of col-
can use at least one of the Inclusive Travel services; leagues with disabilities in their working environment,
•
participation in the Generation Valuable project promot- and the webinar “Neurodiversity and autism” on the val-
ed by the Valuable 500 network with the aim of spread- ue of neurodivergent thinking in Italy;
•
ing the culture of inclusion and empowerment of people the online course “Hablamos de Discapacidad” and the
with disabilities through mentoring meetings between web fiction “La casa de la inclusión” in Spain, subse-
talented colleagues with managers; quently customized for Romania, where podcasts on the
•
drawing of global guidelines to ensure adoption of ac- inclusion of diversity and disability have also been de-
cessibility principles for the development of e-learning veloped, and the “D&I hour” when oboarding new hires;
•
content; workshops and thematic podcasts in Chile and Colom-
•
assistance and support for the adoption of assisting bia, where all colleagues were also offered an induction
tools by a dedicated team in Italy; on sign language.
•
“Ability line” service in Romania to support colleagues in For further detail, please refert to “Empowering Enel people”
recognizing disability;
For our customers
One of the most innovative aspects of the Value4Disabil- by the energy market or by any of Enel Group’s op-
ity project is inclusive business, namely the Group’s com- erations;
•
mitment to opening new opportunities in terms of social have difficulties in obtaining or using information to
innovation and business development starting from the represent their interests;
•
solution of social needs. To promote this new approach are less comfortable accessing and using appropri-
in an integrated way, it is necessary to have a single vision ate services and products.
of customer needs in terms of inclusiveness and acces- Customers who are not directly vulnerable may fall un-
sibility. der this definition if vulnerable people live in the same
In 2022 we have: family and depend on family support or other assis-
a. defined who vulnerable customers are and what are tance.”
their needs. By focusing on temporary or permanent conditions,
“Vulnerable customers, for Enel, are both individuals vulnerability results from the interaction between per-
and entities who when looking at the combined effect sonal characteristics and changing environmental and
of their intrinsic features, socio-demographic ele- socio-economic conditions.
ments, economic and environmental conditions: Moreover, the application of this definition is not lim-
•
cannot participate or risk being adversely impacted ited to individuals, but is extended to all entities that
may be in a vulnerable position (for example, family and inclusive. In particular, we are experimenting the
small enterprises in which the owner dies, associations application of the Social Inclusion Boosting Program
or businesses affected by economic situations such involving the Social Inclusion Community, a selected
as earthquakes, floods, wars, financial crises). There- group of people representing all the vulnerabilities
fore, social(8) and economic vulnerability, disability, de- typical of that context;
•
pendence on medical equipment, and other diversity Enel Premia Wow! for All: project carried out as part
aspects such as seniority, language, literacy, and any of Enel Energia’s loyalty program for the free mar-
other feature that causes a certain degree of exclusion ket, aimed at the periodic inclusion in Enel Premia
fall within the vulnerability definition; Wow! of discount coupons related to the theme of
b. developed ad hoc initiatives to promote customer inclusion;
inclusion, thanks to intensive benchmarking and the c. involve our Business Lines in developing inclusive
support of business leaders and the contribution of business initiatives.
internal communities of colleagues with disabilities. Enel X Way has, for example, made available in open
Here are some examples: source mode the redesign of spaces for charging elec-
•
training course on vulnerable customers, dedicated tric vehicles to make them ‘accessible’ to anyone, from
to those who relate directly with customers; public administrations to other companies in the e-mo-
•
guidelines for accessible and welcoming stores; bility sector. In addition, Enel X Way WayAbilityTM has
•
inclusive electrification process: we have launched been modified and updated: it is a product that makes it
a pilot project in Colombia to ensure that the electri- possible to recharge electric wheelchairs thanks to the
fication and contract signing phases are sustainable public charging infrastructure in urban areas.
For our communities
As part of the sustainability projects planned in the area of en and men with disabilities in modifying their condition of
influence of “Coral” in India, where we developed a wind marginality, which is considered non-productive, in a condi-
farm of about 170 MW and, following the usual process of tion that supports the whole family.
listening to local stakeholders, a grazing animal (a buffalo)
for the production of milk was given to a member of the Moreover, vulnerable conditions are a source of stimulus
community in Gujarat, born with lower limb disability. By in- and continuous social innovation. An example of these in-
vesting the earnings of milk sales in awareness raising and novations is the sign language interpreting, subtitling and
empowerment activities of people with disabilities in other translation service, developed together with 2 startups
villages, such person has become a natural leader, devel- (VEASYT and Pedius) that will be tested within the Group
oping a network of about 450 individuals. In practice, such in 2023.
member of the community supports the network of wom-
(8) For example: gap in the use of technology, acting as caregivers, economic situations such as earthquakes, floods, wars, financial crises etc.
Occupational health and safety
Material topics (I level) Plan SDG
• Occupational health and
safety
Double
materiality
Below the 2022 results related to the targets of the previous 2022-2024 Sustainability Plan, the resulting progress and the tar-
gets of the 2023-2025 Sustainability Plan, which may be redefi ned, added to, or surpassed with respect to the previous Plan.
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
Safety Extra Checking on Site (ECoS) 124 Safety ECoS carried out 80 Safety ECoS in 2025
8 S
Safety Contractor Assessments 1,134 Safety Contractor
8 S
Assessments carried out
Target outdated as it was
substituted with the target on
proactive Evaluation Groups,
both related to checks activities
on contractors supplier control
activities
Evaluation Group (EG) proactive N.A. N.A. 47 in 2025
8 S
towards contractors
Reduction of injury frequency rates -23% vs 2021 -1% compared to the 8 S
compared to prior years (LTIFR) (LTIFR = 0.50)(1) previous year
Training hours provided by SHE 65,304 hours
8 S
Factory
Target outdated as the focus of
the training approach changed
from extensive to intensive,
through the provision of specifi c
training courses for professional
profi les required by the business
(1) This fi gure is the result of the calculation made using unrounded decimal values and refers to the combined LTIFR, Enel people and contractors. This index
is calculated by establishing the ratio between the number of injuries (all injuries, also those with 3 days of absence or less) and hours worked/1,000,000.
Goals Progress
I Industrial E Environmental S Social
G Governance T Technological New Redefi ned Outdated Not in line In line Achieved
srotcartnoc
dna
elpoep
lenE
fo
ytefaS
Occupational health
and safety
N.A. = not applicable
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
Global health and safety project N.A. N.A. 1 project per year in the
8 S
period 2023-2025
Global health and safety N.A. N.A. 1 initiative per year in
8 S
communication initiative the period 2023-2025
dna
htlaeh
fo
noitomorP
seeyolpme
fo
gnieb-llew
Read more Read more
The global project includes the preparation of webinars and The global communication initiative consists of the comple-
communication material on “Correct posture” and “Emerging tion and roll out to the entire Enel population of the “Safety
risks from remote working”. Message” (SMM) application.
Occupational health
and safety
2-24 3-3 403-1 403-2 403-3 403-4 403-5 403-6 403-7 403-9 416-1
EU18 DMA EU (former EU21) DMA EU (former EU16)
The health, safety and psychological and The protection of health and safety is
physical well-being of individuals is the most the responsibility of everyone who works
precious asset to be protected at all times of for Enel. The Stop Work Policy requires
life, at work, at home and during leisure time. that both company employees as well as
As part of the wider commitment to respect personnel of contractor companies are
of human rights, in fact, we are committed asked to intervene promptly and stop work
to developing and promoting a robust safety that could endanger their own safety and
culture in order to guarantee a workplace health as well as the safety and health of
that is free from health and safety hazards others, or that could harm the environment,
for everyone who works with and for the understood as compromising the quality
Group. of its components. The Stop Work order
The constant commitment of all, integration is applied without consequences. No fault
of safety in processes and in training or responsibility will be attributed to an
activities, disclosure and analysis of events, employee or contractor who signals a risky
rigorous selection and management of situation in good faith.
contractor companies, continuous quality
controls, sharing of experience and
benchmarking with the top international
players are the foundational elements of our
safety culture.
2.25 217
TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY EXTRA CHECKING ON SITE (ECoS)
FREQUENCY RATE (TRI FR) ENEL SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT
AND COMPANIES COMBINED
279 in 2021 -22.2%
2.86 in 2021 -21.3%
0.50 1,245
thousand hours
LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE OF TOTAL TRAINING FOR ENEL PEOPLE
(LTI FR) ENEL AND COMPANIES
1,188 thousand hours +4.7%
COMBINED
0.65 in 2021 -23.1%
“Statement of Commitment to Health and Safety”
and “Stop Work Policy”
•
The “Statement of Commitment to Health and Safety” adoption of working methods inspired by quality and
and the “Stop Work Policy”, both signed by the Chief their dissemination by means of incisive and effective
Executive Officer, are two documents on which the training that aims to create a lasting connection
commitment of our Group is based, also as approved by between technical aspects and safety aspects;
•
our Policy on human rights. direct commitment of the persons in charge aimed at
The Statement of Commitment is based on the following strengthening a robust culture of leadership in relation
principles: to safety;
• •
compliance with legislation, adoption of the best adoption of safe and responsible conduct throughout
standards and sharing of experience; all levels of the organization;
• •
creation, implementation and continual improvement design of workplaces and supply of suitable equipment
of the Occupational Health and Safety Management and tools for the execution of operating activities,
System in compliance with international standard ISO guaranteeing optimal and the safest conditions;
•
45001; rigorous selection and management of contractors
•
reduction of injuries, occupational diseases and other and vendors, promoting their involvement in safety
accidental events through the implementation of performance continual improvement programs;
•
suitable preventive measures and checking of their constant attention towards communities and towards
adequacy and effectiveness; all those who work with or come into contact with the
•
assessment of all health and safety risks and adoption of Group’s activities by sharing a culture of health and
a systematic approach to eliminate them at the source safety protection;
•
if possible, or to minimize them, while guaranteeing annual definition of priorities, specific and measurable
maximum protection for anyone working for Enel; goals and continual monitoring to check their effective
•
promotion of informative initiatives to disseminate implementation through the involvement of Top
and consolidate a culture of good health, safety and Management.
organizational well-being;
The health and safety system
•
In line with the Policy on Human Rights, Code of Ethics, adoption of residual risk mitigation measures, awarding
Statement of Commitment and Stop Work Policy, we have priority to collective rather than personal solutions;
•
defined a specific Health & Safety Policy that requires ev- active, responsible and integrated intervention of all
ery Group Business Line to have its own Health & Safe- parties concerned with safety, involving workers and/or
ty Management System in compliance with international workers’ representatives, starting from the identification
standard ISO 45001. of risk situations up to the choice of solutions to prevent
The Management System is based on the identification of and/or reduce them;
•
hazards, the qualitative and quantitative assessment of the appointment of a medical officer, when required, and
risks, the planning and implementation of the preventive and setting up health surveillance for workers responsible for
protective measures, as well as checking their effectiveness, specific high-risk processes;
•
any corrective measures and the preparation of work teams. preparation of a program of information and training of
The Management System involves both Enel people and per- workers in order to increase awareness when dealing
sonnel from contractor companies who work at Enel’s plants with situations of risk;
•
and sites, and is based on the following shared principles: regular upkeep and cleaning of workplaces;
• •
prior evaluation, elimination and/or reduction of risks the adoption of tools, also technological tools, to support
through application of the latest technical know-how; the assessment of the risk and its resulting mitigation.
•
identification of the necessary preventive measures and
the associated implementation program;
The Holding Health, Safety, Environment and Quality unit constant commitment in the area of risk reduction. The
(HSEQ) performs the roles of supervision, guidance and Global Business Lines and Country HSEQ structures orient
coordination, promoting the dissemination and sharing of and support the business in relation to health and safety
best practices within the Group and external health and issues, define improvement plans and monitor their exe-
safety benchmarking with top international players in or- cution.
der to identify improvement opportunities and ensure
Enel’s
commitment
is: zero injuries
Total Recordable Injuries Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate every day, all days
(TRI) no. (TRI FR) i
Combined values,
1,308 3.24 Enel people and
1,212 2.86 contractors
962 2.25
-20.6% -21.3%
2020 2021 2022 2020 2021 2022
Number of Fatal Accidents Fatality Frequency Rate
(FAT) no. (FAT FR) i
9 9
6 0.022 0.021
-33.3%
0.014
-33.3%
2020 2021 2022 2020 2021 2022
Number of Life Changing Accidents Life Changing Accidents Frequency Rate
(LCA) no. (LCA FR) i
4
2 0.009
-50.0%
0.005
-44.4%
0 0.000
2020 2021 2022 2020 2021 2022
As compared to the previous year, in 2022 there was a organization and processes in a specific operating area of
consistent reduction in all injury frequency rates, in rela- the Group. These checks are performed by expert HSEQ
tion to a number of hours worked that has remained more personnel who come from outside the operating unit un-
or less constant (+1.1%). der assessment, in addition to technical profiles who are
In 2022, the Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRI specific to the business. After the check is performed, a
FR) decreased 21.3% compared to 2021, with approxi- report is issued with the evidence found in the field and
mately 2.2 injury events for every million hours worked. the proposed corrective measures, whose implementation
This decrease involves both Enel people (-2.4%) as well as is monitored until complete conclusion.
personnel from contractor companies (-24.4%). As regards the collection, analysis and management of the
Furthermore, as regards events with the highest impact, events, the Group uses Policy 106 “Classification, commu-
there were 6 fatalities involving 1 employee of the Group nication, analysis and reporting of incidents”, which defines
(Enel Grids in Romania) and 5 involving contractors (all in roles and methods employed to guarantee prompt com-
Enel Grids, 3 in Brazil, 1 in Italy and 1 in Argentina). The munication of incidents, ensuring the related cause analy-
causes of all these injuries are mainly associated with elec- sis process, definition of improvement plans, and monitor-
trical (5) and mechanical (1) related accidents. Furthermore, ing of the associated actions depending on the event type.
during the year there was only 1 Life Changing injury that Based on evidence resulting from the monitoring and
involved a Grids contractor in Brazil. control system, a data-driven approach was implemented
There were also 2 Life Changing injuries, that is injuries that is based on IT tools and analytical dashboards, which
with consequences that changed the life of the injured makes it possible to appraise the performance of the or-
person, one from Grids in Brazil and the other Enel X in ganizational units and suppliers, identify areas at greater
Chile, both contracting company personnel. risk of fatalities and Life Changing injuries and the subse-
quent management methods. This approach is combined
217 Extra Checking on Site (ECoS) assessments were per- with the collection and sharing of the best practices that
formed in 2022, meaning the internal assessment of safety support the process of continuous learning and help avoid
and environment in order to evaluate the suitability of the the same events from repeating.
Safety in contract processes
Safety at Enel is integrated in tender processes and the As regards supplier safety and environmental checks,
performance of companies is monitored both on a prelimi- during 2022 the performance of the Contractor Assess-
nary level, by means of the qualification system, and during ment (CA), continued at the offices of the suppliers and at
contract execution through a large number of control pro- their job sites, or also remotely when it was not possible to
cesses and tools such as the Supplier Performance Man- visit them on site. 1,434 CA were carried out distributed
agement tool (SPM). among all the Enel Business Lines and Countries and Re-
During the tender phase, a specific document is prepared gions. The Contractor Assessment is carried out during the
(“HSE Terms”), and attached to all contracts that must be qualification phase for each new supplier, in cases in which
signed by contractors when work is awarded. The docu- criticalities emerge (severe injuries or fatalities) or low SPM
ment, which is the same throughout the entire Group, de- (Supplier Performance Management) rating scores. In ad-
fines the obligations in relation to health, safety and en- dition, 55 Evaluation Groups (EG), which are periodic mul-
vironmental aspects that the contractors must respect, tidisciplinary meetings, were held in 2022 distributed in all
placing the same obligation on their subcontractors. This the Business Lines and Countries and Regions, which make
tool clarifies Enel’s requirements and conveys their impor- it possible to assess the safety performance of suppliers
tance to contractors; it also defines a list of safety and en- and define targeted actions as well as accompaniment and
vironmental violations that can involve specific penalties, support plans customized for the companies, in order to
up to the termination of the contract and/or suspension of reach the desired safety standards and mitigate possible
qualification on the Enel supplier portal. areas of risk in advance.
Infrastructure safety
and technological innovation
Enel views technological innovation as a valid tool capa- functionality of devices that generate alarms through
ble of improving a large number of processes from the the use of Artificial Intelligence programs;
•
Health & Safety perspective. In continuation with what was Smart Bucket: which implements a system that is able to
done in previous years, the development and application prevent damaging underground utilities during excava-
of some innovative safety and health projects were contin- tion works, which are a significant market problem that
ued also in 2022. can create construction delays and risks for the safety of
“Personal Voltage Detectors”, portable devices designed machine operators;
•
to identify electrical voltage on medium-voltage power AME: a project with the purpose of creating a device
lines located at operationally significant distances from the able to define a safe work area dedicated to operators
worker but not necessarily involved in the activity in prog- and vehicles, through the use of proximity and voltage
ress, are being used in the Infrastructure and Networks presence sensors.
area to reduce the electrical risk.
Within the scope of the “Intrinsic Safety” program, which Finally, innovative solutions are being developed for moni-
was implemented with synergy and co-design between toring health conditions during work activities in order to
various Enel Global Business Lines and Holding Functions, prevent and quickly manage potential situations of danger
many experiments and innovative projects are being de- and/or emergency. An example is Safety 4 Lone workers
veloped, such as: “AI4Lifting”, which uses Artificial Intelli- which involves the use of a multifunctional device (smart-
gence to detect any potential situations of danger when watch) that uses specific algorithms to monitor the main
handling loads, and “Hop Safe”, a system that allows per- biometric parameters in order to prevent possible situa-
sonnel to use a ladder when working at a height only when tions of risk, in particular for Enel workers working alone.
they are properly connected to the life line. In parallel, 2022 marked the end of the test campaign for
The experimentation of innovative solutions is being con- the Youcare T-shirt, an innovative wearable proposed by
tinued in the area of HMI (Human-Machine Interaction) to the “Accyourate” company, which was fitted with elec-
prevent the risk of accidental impacts with moving work tro-medical sensors that detect up to 9 bio-vital param-
equipment or with underground service lines, as in the eters, whose positive result opens up further scenarios in
case of the following projects: the area of injury prevention and in the planning of cam-
•
Anticollision System: whose objective is to improve the paigns for data driven based health.
Health
3-3 403-3
Health is a fundamental value for the care and develop- ical level, and are implementing awareness campaigns for
ment of our people. For this reason, the Enel Group has promoting healthy lifestyles. For example, in 2022, a glob-
adopted a structured health management system based al campaign on health risks connected to smoking was
on preventive and protection measures, and is commit- carried out, and 2 webinars were held, translated into the
ted to developing a corporate culture oriented toward the main languages of the Group Countries and available to all
promotion of psychological-physical health, organizational employees that explained the effects of smoking on health
well-being and balance between the professional and per- and provided advice on how to quit.
sonal spheres. As regards work-correlated stress, over the past years we
This approach is described in the Policy on Human Rights have carried out 3 surveys, starting from a coverage of ap-
and the new version of the “Health and Well-being” Policy, proximately 20% up to all employees. The last survey was
approved in January 2022, and defines in three main steps started at the end of 2022. These surveys did not point
−health surveillance, prevention and well-being − the path out true work-correlated stress, but some Company areas
for promoting good health and well-being. emerged with a greater number of “borderline” cases, for
From this point of view, from a global and local perspective, which we planned and implemented actions to reduce the
we are promoting initiatives targeted toward improving average stress level of the unit.
the quality of the work day on a physical and psycholog- As regards occupational diseases, our analyses did not
find cases related to renewable energies that, due to their gency aspects for expats or long term travelers” policy is in
nature, decrease the risk caused by the greater speed of force, which in addition to providing guidelines to travelers
building the plants and their more simple management. in terms of health, safety and emergency management,
In addition, we are providing screening programs targeted also defines in a uniform manner the preliminary steps and
toward preventing the onset of diseases and offer conven- authorization flow for the temporary assignment of Enel
tions that provide ready access to medical and healthcare people abroad. For the latter and their families, insurance
services, assistance actions for persons with disabilities coverage was activated since last year, which provides ac-
and specific preventive medicine initiatives. cess to health care services in the host country, as well as
As regards business travel, the “Health, safety and emer- home care.
Development of safety culture:
training and information
3-3 403-5 EU18
To support the processes of change and guarantee the The Buddy Mentors can be defined as “safety influenc-
dissemination of a solid safety culture on all levels, the Enel ers” and are based on a fundamental assumption: “Work-
Group has a structured process for the management and ing safely means ensuring the safe work also of your
provision of training to all employees. buddies”. This is a project characterized by innovation,
Overall in 2022, Enel people received approximately 1,245 change (cultural and organizational), transferability and
thousand training hours regarding health and safety, effectiveness of the results. With this initiative targeted
with the purpose of protecting the health and psycholog- toward Enel Grids personnel, Enel won the “AIF Training
ical-physical well-being of people and increasing the know- Excellence Award (Italian Trainer Association)” in Italy, in
how and specific skills of workers throughout the Group. the category “Health, Safety, Organizational Well-being”,
In particular, in the Holding HSEQ organizational unit, the targeted toward all professional structures working in the
SHE Factory unit is active, which has the specific objec- public or private sector.
tive of implementing, integrating and harmonizing train- Particular attention is also placed on suppliers with the
ing projects throughout the entire Group dedicated to “Partnership for safety, health and the environment”
promoting a new mentality for a better way to work that is project, which focuses on assisting Enel partners in
safer for people and more sustainable for the environment. adapting their company standards regarding HSEQ, with
SHE Factory unit provided more than 65 thousand hours of assessments and collaboration opportunities in the field.
internal training. From this point of view, SHE Factory provided all suppliers
In 2022, this unit provided various specific training courses with a global software platform, ENEL4SHARE Platform,
on health, safety, environment and quality (HSEQ), which for the sharing of training material which can be down-
involved approximately 18 thousand employees, for a total loaded and used by the supplier to hold training for their
of more than 65 thousand hours of training supplied. As employees.
regards safety, the main topics that were addressed last
year were Safety Leadership, Stop Work Policy, Buddy
Partner and Mentor.
TRAINING
HEALTH WEBINAR – The importance of prevention:
risks to health deriving from smoking cigarettes
We are committed to
developing a corporate culture
oriented toward the promotion
Sergio Martínez González
Health and Safety Manager, of psychological-physical
HSEQ Holding
health, organizational well-
being and balance between
the professional and personal
spheres
“For Enel, worker good health and well-being have
always been a top priority. We are working to protect
the psychological and physical well-being of all our
colleagues, not only at work, but also at home and during
their free time. For this reason, we are committed to
promoting healthy life styles and developing a new well-
being-oriented corporate culture. We are convinced
that our contribution is able to improve the lives of our
colleagues and their loved ones, and this motivates us to
always do better.“
Cigarette smoking is one of the main causes of di- Senior Researcher of Respiratory System Diseases at the
sease and death world-wide. Fortunately, many of University of Pisa and Manager of CEST, “Center for the
the negative effects of smoking can be preven- Study and Treatment of Tobacco Use”, we discussed pre-
ted or reduced by quitting smoking. It does not matter vention, the health benefits that result from deciding to
how long you have smoked, quitting can still considerably stop smoking, products that replace the traditional ciga-
reduce the risk of developing diseases associated with rette, how the pandemic changed smoking habits and the
smoking. environmental impact of smoking.
The Health and Safety unit of HSEQ Holding, organized a The webinar, which is also available in on-demand mode,
global awareness event on damage caused by smoking on has been translated into the main languages of the Group
May 31, on occasion of the “World No Tobacco Day”. and recorded the participation of approximately 3,600 pe-
With Professor Laura Carrozzi, Full Professor of Respira- ople, equal to approximately 5% of all Group employees.
tory System Diseases at the University of Pisa, and Director
of the AOUP Pneumology Unit, and Dr. Francesco Pistelli,
Safety of communities and third parties
3-3 416-1 EU25
Establishing solid and long-lasting relations with local ronment, the Company carries out monitoring campaigns.
communities in the countries in which Enel operates rep- These include, for example, measurement of the electro-
resents a fundamental pillar of the Group’s strategy. This, magnetic fields of power networks, the detection of the
together with constant attention to social and environ- noise level, vibration and dust created by the electrical
mental factors, makes it possible for Enel to implement on machines of power plants and distribution and transform-
the one hand a new fair development model that does not er substations. Also the following environmentally signifi-
leave anyone behind and on the other hand is able to cre- cant factors are monitored: atmospheric emissions and air
ate shared value over the long term for all stakeholders. quality, effluent discharge into surface waters, water qual-
ity, production, reuse and disposal of waste, soil quality,
Our installed plants are built in compliance with legisla- biodiversity impacts.
tive prescriptions and the rules of best technical practice. Considerable attention has been devoted to preventing
Plants, machines and work equipment are subject to sys- injuries involving members of the public who accidentally
tematic and periodic checks and maintenance activities come into contact with electricity networks during oper-
to guarantee correct operation in compliance with regu- ations such as job sites near transmission lines or sports
lations and in accordance with the adoption of the best and leisure pursuits (fishing, flying kites, etc.). For this rea-
safety standards. son, awareness campaigns are conducted periodically, ad-
In order to guarantee the health and safety of the com- dressed both to the general public and to specific cate-
munity and reduce the impact of the typical activities of gories such as, for example, construction companies and
the Company’s generation process on the external envi- sport’s associations.
Emergencies management
DMA EU (former EU21)
Our Group has defined a common crisis and critical events Rome, supplying support 24/7 for communication and co-
management system across the various countries where ordination of information flows. Moreover, the crisis com-
we are present, described by policy 24 “Critical Event Man- mittee defines strategies and actions to deal with critical
agement”. This system involves evaluation of the impact events and coordinates all actions designed to restrict
caused by critical events by means of a standard reference damage to the Enel Group’s property, profitability and rep-
scale with three levels. High-impact crises are managed utation.
centrally, while medium- or low-impact crisis situations are In parallel, if the critical event can involve risks to the health
managed within the specific organization in the individual and safety of people, the policy 203 “Guideline for Emer-
countries. gency Management” foresees on a global level the imme-
High-impact crises (“Group Red Code”) are also addressed diate activation of emergency measures, in compliance
by creating a central crisis committee in the Security Con- with the locally adopted safety management systems.
trol Room at the Viale Regina Margherita headquarters in
Nuclear policy
In the context of its operations in the field of nuclear tech- Further details are available on the Enel website (https://
nologies, Enel has made a public commitment, in the role www.enel.com/it/investitori/sostenibilita/impegno-quo-
of shareholder, to guarantee that a clear nuclear safety tidiano/salute-sicurezza-lavoro/enel-nucleare).
policy is adopted in its atomic energy plants and that the
plants are managed in accordance with criteria capable of
assuring the absolute priority of safety and protection of
workers, the community and the environment.
Industrial relations on health and safety topics
In order to consolidate the culture of safety and promote created an analogous bilateral commission at the Group
the adoption of behaviors that are consistent with Com- level, which defined a “joint recommendation” concerning
pany policies, Enel supports social dialogue and partici- health and safety standards applicable in all Enel coun-
pation of workers’ representatives. Joint committees have tries. Negotiations are in progress to renew the Enel Global
been set up for this purpose in the main countries in which Framework Agreement.
Enel is present, dedicated to monitoring the issues and On March 29, 2022, Enel and the trade unions signed the
projects concerning workers’ health and safety on the na- “Charter of the Person”, which is a document containing
tional level and also in terms of Business Lines. In Italy, in important principles also concerning the safety culture
implementation of the matters provided for by the national and behaviors that are being implemented on a Group lev-
trade union agreement on the “Italian model of Enel Italia el, as the agreement was implemented also in other Coun-
industrial relations”, there has been a bilateral commission tries and Regions.
on workplace safety and protection policies in force since
2012. The commission examines the main projects aimed The following details concern the commissions that oper-
at improving safety standards, training projects, preventive ate in the main countries on the national and/or local levels.
initiatives. In 2013, the Enel Global Framework Agreement
COUNTRY JOINT COMMITTEES FOR HEALTH AND SAFETY
The Occupational Safety and Environment Policies Committee performs an important role of analysis and planning of projects
that concern safety, the processing of prevention policies and organizational solutions; promotion of safety training courses for
personnel and employees of contractor companies, with particular attention to the prevention and protection service manager.
The Health and Safety Bilateral Bodies per Business Area are responsible, in particular in the Grids area that follows the
guidelines dictated by the Bilateral Committee, applying them to the specific context of the Grids, for analyzing the injury trend,
Italy
suggesting innovative safety projects, analyzing training plans and modify operating instructions. During the last two years,
both the Committee as well as the Health and Safety Bilateral Bodies were particularly active, with periodic meetings almost
every 15 days, in order to review in particular all the aspects correlated to the pandemic, as well as for the management of
safety issues in order to identify and accompany innovative projects targeted towards continuously improving the prevention of
injuries, but above all to work on the safety culture also as specified in the Charter of the Person.
In compliance with legislative provisions, there is an Occupational Health and Safety Committee comprised of representatives
appointed by the trade organizations who represent the workers for each company (worker representatives) on the one
hand, and on the other, a number of people representing the employer equal to the number of worker representatives. The
occupational health physician is required to participate in the CSSM meetings.
The Occupational Safety and Health Committee aims to guarantee employee involvement in the development and
Romania implementation of decisions regarding occupational health and safety. Committee members meet periodically (every three
months and each time it is necessary) to discuss specific problems and propose measures/actions for managing, controlling
and improving the level of employee health and safety. Based on the CLA, every Enel company also has joint committees
comprised of representatives of the members of the company and union/worker representatives that meet periodically/
every time it is necessary to resolve problems that arrive when applying the valid CLA, as well as to create an organizational
framework that permits them to remain in permanent contact in order to prepare the negotiations for the new CLA.
The Comisión de participación y control has been set up on the national level, while the local level is handled by Comités de
Spain
seguridad y salud territoriales.
The power plants have bilateral committees responsible for health and hygiene issues, which meet once a month or once every
Argentina
two months. The agreement does not specify the frequency with which the meetings are held.
The mixed health and safety committees are active and have the task of avoiding occupational injuries by implementing
Chile
measures for the prevention of risks for employers, implementing permanent work and programs on the safety of work places.
We have bilateral committees (workers and Company representatives) that approve occupational health and safety policies
Peru
according to law.
The Comissão interna de prevenção de acidentes has been established at all sites, which is comprised of Company
Brazil
representatives and worker representatives; the committee focuses on the creation of injury prevention initiatives.
Two joint committees have been set up (COPASST), one for networks and one for generation, with the role of promoting
Colombia
occupational medicine legislation.
The Health and Safety committee is active: as required by law, there is a Mixed Commission for Safety and Hygiene (MCSH)
for each plant, including also the corporate offices. This represents the obligations of the employer according to “NOM-019-
STPS-2011” (constitution, integration, organization and operation of the safety and hygiene commissions), being a bipartisan
Mexico body comprised of an equal number of worker and employer representatives, whose purpose is to identify hazardous and
unsafe agents and conditions, investigate the causes of occupational injuries and illnesses; suggest measures for preventing
them, and to control observance. The personnel part of the Mixed Commission for Safety and Hygiene (MCSH) perform a safety
walk at each plant and site every three months.
Below the 2022 results related to the targets of the previous 2022-2024 Sustainability Plan, the resulting progress and the
targets of the 2023-2025 Sustainability Plan, which may be rede ned, added to, or surpassed with respect to the previous Plan.
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
Diversity Policy - Monitoring of the The composition of the Board Monitoring of the
16 G
implementation of the Diversity Policy of Directors appointed by the implementation of the Diversity
in the Board of Directors Shareholders' Meeting of May Policy in the Board of Directors
14, 2020 is consistent with the
objectives set out in the Diversity
Policy for the various types of
diversity
•
Recommendations and best Ensured alignment with Continual alignment with
16 G
practices - Continual alignment with international corporate international recommendations
international recommendations and governance best and best practices for
best practices for governance practices, including those governance
recommended by leading
proxy advisors and leading
institutional investors •
Full compliance with the new
Italian Corporate Governance
Code ensured
Induction plan - Structured induction Induction activities carried Structured induction plan for
16 G
plan for Directors and Statutory out to provide Directors Directors and Statutory Auditors
Auditors during their term in offi ce, and Statutory Auditors with during their term in offi ce, which
which includes the sustainability adequate knowledge of the includes the sustainability issues
issues sectors in which the Group
operates, market trends and the
regulatory framework, including
sustainability issues
•
Engagement - Implementation Enel SpA's Engagement Policy Implementation tracking and
16 G
tracking and possible updating of has been implemented in a possible updating of Enel
Enel SpA's Engagement Policy and regular manner SpA's Engagement Policy and
•
support ing the Investor Relations The relevant corporate support ing the Investor Relations
unit in engagement activities with Function has duly support ed unit in engagement activities
institutional investors and proxy the Investor Relations unit with institutional investors and
advisors on corporate governance in engagement activities proxy advisors on corporate
issues regarding corporate governance issues
governance issues
srotceriD
fo
draoB
eht
fo
erutcurtS
tnemeganaM
poT
dna
Sound governance
Material topics (I level) Plan SDG
• Sound governance and
fair corporate conduct
Double
materiality
Sound
governance
Goals Progress
I Industrial E Environmental S Social
G Governance T Technological New Redefi ned Outdated Not in line In line Achieved
N.A. = not applicable
SDG Activities 2022 results Progress 2023-2025 targets Tag
Board review - Board review Board review activities start ed in Board review carried out with
16 G
carried out with the support of an November 2022(1) the support of an independent
independent consultant consultant
Share Ownership Guidelines - N.A. N.A. Drafting by the competent
16 G
Drafting by the competent organizational structures
organizational structures and and adoption by the Board
adoption by the Board of Directors of of Directors of guidelines
share ownership guidelines applicable applicable to the Chief
to the Chief Executive Offi cer and Key Executive Offi cer and Key
Management Personnel Management Personnel and
concerning the minimum
threshold of ownership of
Enel shares to be reached
within a given term from
their appointment and to
be maintained during their
mandate
Anti-corruption cert ifi cation - ISO Cert ifi cation obtained for 100% retention of ISO
16 G
37001 anti-corruption cert ifi cation the main Italian and foreign 37001 cert ifi cations
retained for the main Italian companies of the Group subject acquired by Group S
Companies, extended also to the to the retention of cert ifi cations companies
Group’s foreign companies already acquired
•
Compliance Program - Ongoing Process continued to adopt Ongoing improvement of
16 G
improvement of Compliance the Enel Global Compliance Compliance Programs/Models
Programs/Models to prevent Program regarding the to prevent criminal risks
criminal risks acquisition and set-up of
companies at Group level
•
Ongoing updates of the
criminal risk prevention
models related to foreign
companies
Training - Additional extension of Online training on ethical issues Online training on ethical
16 G
training on Model 231 and Enel Global (such as Model 231, Anti- issues (e.g. Model 231, Anti-
Compliance Program corruption Management System, corruption Management S
EGCP) extended to all employees System, Enel Global
of the Group's Italian and foreign Compliance Program)
companies
International Sanctions Program N.A. N.A. Ongoing monitoring of the 16 G
- Ongoing improvement of the regulatory environment
international sanctions program and and possible updating
sanctions risk prevention model of the international
sanctions program to
ensure full compliance with
international sanctions
regulations
Cooperative Compliance Index - 95.7% N.A. 96.0% in 2025
16 G
Group companies membership to
cooperative compliance schemes
(cooperative compliance with tax
authorities)
fo
draoB
eht
fo
erutcurtS
-itnA
dna
ledoM
lanoitazinagrO
tsuboR
-snart
xaT
tnemeganaM
poT
dna
srotceriD
noitpurroc
margorP
ecnailpmoC
ycnerap
(1) It is expected to fi nalize the activities by March 2023.
Sound governance
2-1 2-9 2-12 2-17 2-29
Enel shareholders
Enel is a Company listed since 1999 on the Euronext pension funds and ethical funds, thanks also to the
Milan stock exchange and managed by Borsa Italiana SpA adoption, by the Company and the Group, of the best
and has the most shareholders of all Italian companies. international practices on transparency and corporate
Notably, the shareholder structure at December 31, 2022 governance. Moreover, at the date of this Sustainability
was as follows: (i) 56.7% institutional investors; (ii) 19.7% Report, the Enel Group includes a further 11 companies
retail investors; (iii) 23.6% Ministry of the Economy and issuing shares listed on the Brazilian, Chilean, Peruvian,
Finance. Enel’s corporate structure includes the main Spanish, and US Stock Exchanges.
international investment funds, insurance companies,
44 12
%
PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN ENEL SPA’S BOARD OF DIRECTORS
ON ENEL SPA’S BOARD MEETINGS CONCERNING
OF DIRECTORS SUSTAINABILITY
172 29 7
REPORTS VIOLATIONS DATA
CONCERNING OF THE CODE BREACH
THE CODE OF OF ETHICS
ETHICS
Policy for managing the dialog
the Corporate Affairs office, which is in turn part of the
with institutional investors Legal and Corporate Affairs Function, which interacts
on a continuous basis with the retail shareholders and
and with all shareholders
bondholders, providing them with all useful explanations
and bondholders regarding the respective issues of interest.
The information provided to Enel’s institutional investors
Enel considers it to be in its specific interest – as well as a and all their shareholders and bondholders by the above-
duty toward the market – to ensure a constant and open indicated organizational structures – as well as by any other
relationship that is based on the mutual understanding duly authorized Company member – complies with the
of the roles with all shareholders and bondholders, as well criteria of truthfulness, clarity, coherence, completeness
as with the institutional investors and their representative and symmetry of information; the information is also
associations in order to increase the relative level of supplied in a timely manner and in compliance with what is
understanding regarding the activities performed by the required by the regulation adopted by Enel regarding the
Company and the Group. In this context, Enel maintains processing of corporate information.
dialogue with counterparties based on principles of In particular, the Investor Relations structures are, for
fairness and transparency, in compliance with EU and example, responsible for the following: (i) preparing
national regulations on market abuse, as well as in line with Enel’s equity story and organizing meetings between the
international best practices. This engagement activity has Company’s Top Management and the financial community;
led to the positive result, over recent years, of a significant (ii) managing relationships with ratings agencies and with
increase in participation of the institutional investors in the the fixed income investors; (iii) managing relationships
Shareholders’ Meetings. with institutional investors and financial analysts; (iv)
In order to regulate the methods for developing this dialog, coordinating the management of relationships with the
in March 2021 the Board of Directors adopted a specific institutional investors who have an interest in the listed
Policy, (i.e. “Engagement Policy”), acting on a proposal of share capital controlled by Enel; (v) preparing market
the Chairman made in agreement with the Chief Executive analyses and reports concerning Enel shares, also
Officer, which clarified to a large extent the practices monitoring the consensus of the financial analysts; (vi)
already followed by Enel and whose use takes into account supporting the Communications Function, in coordination
the applicable best practices adopted by the institutional with the Corporate Affairs unit with the definition and
investors and reflected in the stewardship codes. approval of Enel’s price sensitive press releases, as well
This Engagement Policy, which was applied consistently as developing and updating the content dedicated to
during 2022, also identifies the corporate structures investors on the Company website and in the app called
that, in line with the practices established by Enel from “Enel Investor”.
the moment their shares were listed on the stock For more details, refer to the Report on Corporate
exchange, are responsible for the dialog activities, and Governance and Ownership Structure for 2022. Also,
specifically with: (i) a specific Investor Relations office Enel’s website (www.enel.com, “Investors” section) provides
which is part of the Administration, Finance and Control access to economic, financial, environmental, social and
Function, which interacts on a continuous basis with the governance information and updated data and documents
institutional investors (as well as with the financial analysts of particular interest, providing a multidisciplinary and
and the rating agencies); as well as (ii) a specific area in integrated vision.
Corporate governance model
2-9 2-10 2-11 2-12 2-13 2-14
Enel’s corporate governance system complies with the sequent need to proceed with adequate consideration of
principles contained in the Italian Corporate Governance all the interests of the relevant stakeholders.
Code published on January 31, 2020(1) (the “Corporate Gov- For a detailed illustration of Enel’s corporate governance,
ernance code”), to which the Company adheres, was also we invite you to refer to the Report on Corporate Gover-
inspired by the international best practices. The corporate nance and Ownership Structure for 2022, which is avail-
governance system adopted by Enel is oriented toward the able on the Company’s website (www.enel.com); we further
goal of sustainable success, given that it is aimed at cre- refer you to the specific sections of this Sustainability Re-
ating value for shareholders over the long term, aware of port for an illustration of the governance of sustainability
the importance from an environmental and social point of and the management of climate change.
view of the Enel Group’s operating activities and the con-
Board of Directors
CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Michele Crisostomo AND GENERAL MANAGER
Francesco Starace
SECRETARY
Silvia Alessandra Fappani
DIRECTORS
Cesare Calari
Costanza Esclapon de Villeneuve
Samuel Leupold
Alberto Marchi
Mariana Mazzucato
Mirella Pellegrini
Anna Chiara Svelto
Board of
Statutory Auditors
CHAIRMAN
Barbara Tadolini
AUDITORS ALTERNATE AUDITORS
Luigi Borré Carolyn A. Dittmeier
Maura Campra Tiziano Onesti
Piera Vitali
Audit Firm
KPMG SpA
(1) It is available on the Borsa Italiana website (at https://www.borsaitaliana.it/comitato-corporate-governance/codice/2020.pdf).
2022
COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD
OF DIRECTORS
1
executive director
GENDER
1 in 2021
8
non-executive directors
8 in 2021
4
of which 8 independent(1)
44.4%
8 in 2021
Women 44.4%
4 in 2021 in 2021
5
55.6%
55.6% Men
in 2021 5 in 2021
11
%
30-50
0
%
AGE < 30
89
%
> 50
EXPERTISE
Energy industry
Legal and corporate governance
Strategic vision
Communication and marketing
Accounting, finance and risk management
International experience
(1) The figures for 2022 and 2021 refer to directors qualifying as independent pursuant to the Consolidated Law on Financial
Intermediation and the Italian Corporate Governance Code (2020 edition).
Board of Directors
2-9 2-10 2-11 2-12 2-13 2-14 2-16 2-17 2-18 3-3 405-1
The Board of Directors in office was appointed by the Or- ed a specific Policy (i.e. “Engagement Policy”), acting on a
dinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 14, 2020 and con- proposal of the Chairman formulated in agreement with
sists of nine members. the Chief Executive Officer, which clarified to a large extent
Enel applies diversity criteria, also in relation to gender, the practices already followed by Enel and whose use takes
in the composition of the Board of Directors, in line with into account the applicable best practices adopted by the
the priority goal of ensuring adequate competence and institutional investors and reflected in the “stewardship”
professionalism of its members. Specifically, in January codes.
2018 the Board of Directors, acting on a proposal of the In relation to the topic of succession plans for executive
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee and directors, in September 2016 the Board of Directors, act-
the Nomination and Compensation Committee, and in im- ing on a proposal of the Nomination and Compensation
plementation of what is required by the Single Financial Committee made in agreement with the Corporate Gover-
Act, approved a diversity policy that describes the optimal nance and Sustainability Committee, shared the contents
characteristics of the Board’s composition to ensure it can of a specific “contingency plan” aimed at regulating the
fulfil its duties as effectively as possible, making decisions steps to be taken to assure proper management of the
that can tangibly benefit from the contribution of a plu- Company in case the Chief Executive Officer ceases to
rality of different qualified members able to examine the hold office before the end of their ordinary term (defined
issues under discussion from diverse perspectives. as “crisis management” cases).
The Board of Directors held 16 meetings in 2022, of which Finally, at the end of 2022 and during the first months of
12 addressed climate-related matters, reflected in the 2023, with the assistance of an independent consultant,
strategies and related implementation methods. In or- the Board of Directors carried out an assessment of the
der to provide Directors with an adequate overview of the size, composition, and functioning of the Board itself and
business sectors in which the Group operates (including its committees (i.e. “board review”), in line with the most
sustainability issues), a broad and comprehensive induc- advanced corporate governance practices followed inter-
tion program was organized commencing in the second nationally and assimilated in the Corporate Governance
half of 2020, followed by specific examination of the topics Code. The board review was conducted also in accordance
of corporate governance and climate change during 2021. with the peer-to-peer review method, i.e. through assess-
During 2022, the induction program continued with fur- ment not merely of the operation of the body considered
ther examination of the topics of cyber security and risk globally, but also of the style and contents of the contribu-
governance. tion provided by each of its members, and was extended
The maximum number of offices that the members of the to the Board of Statutory Auditors. Within the scope of the
Board of Directors can hold on the Board of Directors or board review, specific attention was dedicated to verify the
governing bodies of other companies of a relevant size Directors’ perception regarding (i) the effectiveness of the
is regulated by a specific corporate policy, which was last induction activities, as well as (ii) the involvement of the
updated in 2020 in order to adapt the contents to the rel- Board of Directors in sustainability issues and the integra-
evant best practices prepared by the main proxy advisors tion of sustainability topics in corporate strategy, including
and relevant institutional investors. those related to climate change. The results of the board
In order to regulate the way in which the Company engag- review are provided in Enel’s Report on Corporate Gover-
es with institutional investors and with all shareholders and nance and Ownership Structure.
bond holders, in March 2021 the Board of Directors adopt-
Remuneration policy
2-18 2-19 2-20 2-21
Enel’s Remuneration Policy for 2022, which was adopt- lished on January 31, 2020; (ii) the national and interna-
ed by the Board of Directors acting on a proposal of the tional best practices; (iii) the information that emerged
Nomination and Compensation Committee and approved from the favorable vote of the Shareholders’ Meeting of
by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 19, 2022, was de- May 20, 2021 on the remuneration policy for 2021; (iv) the
fined in consideration of (i) the recommendations con- results of the engagement activities regarding corporate
tained in the Italian Corporate Governance Code, pub- governance carried out by the Company between January
and March 2022 with the main proxy advisors and some in specific multi-annual incentive plans. In particular, for
relevant institutional investors with an interest in Enel 2022 this component is linked to participation in the
capital; (v) the results of a benchmark analysis regarding Long-Term Incentive Plan destined for the management
the remuneration of the Chairman of the Board of Direc- of Enel SpA and/or of its subsidiaries pursuant to arti-
tors, the Chief Executive Officer/General Manager and cle 2359 of the Italian Civil Code (“2022 LTI Plan”), which
the Non-Executive Directors of Enel for 2021, which was contains the following three-year performance goals:
prepared by the independent consultant Mercer. • average Enel TSR (Total Shareholders Return) vs av-
The purpose of this Policy is to (i) promote Enel’s sustain- erage Euro Stoxx Utilities – UEM index TSR in the
able success, which is based on the creation of long-term three-year period 2022-2024;
value to the benefit of its shareholders, taking into due • cumulative ROIC (Return on Invested Capital) –
consideration the interests of the other relevant stake- WACC (Weighted Average Cost of Capital) in the
holders, in order to encourage reaching the strategic three-year period 2022-2024;
goals; (ii) attract, retain and motivate people with the skills • emissions of GHG Scope 1 per equivalent kWh
and professionalism required for the delicate manageri- generated by the Group in 2024;
al tasks assigned to them, in consideration of the com- • percentage of women in the top management suc-
pensation and work conditions of the Company and Enel cession plans at the end of 2024.
Group employees; as well as (iii) promote the company The 2022 LTI Plan also requires any premium accrued to
mission and values. be represented by a share component, to which – based
The remuneration policy for 2022 sets out the following on the level of achievement of the various targets – a
compensation for the Chief Executive Officer/General monetary component can be added. In particular, 130%
Manager and for Key Management Personnel (referred to of the base bonus of the Chief Executive Officer/Gener-
as DRS - Dirigenti con Responsabilità Strategiche): al Manager (with respect to a maximum amount that can
•
a fixed component; reach 280% of the base bonus) and 65% of the base bo-
•
a short-term variable component (MBO), to be paid nus of the DRS (with respect to a maximum amount that
based on the achievement of specific performance tar- can reach 180% of the base premium) is to be disbursed in
gets. Specifically: Enel shares, mainly purchased from the Company. In addi-
–
for the Chief Executive Officer/General Manager, the tion, the disbursement of a significant portion of the long-
2022 MBO is based on the following annual perfor- term variable remuneration component (70% of the total)
mance targets: is deferred to the second subsequent financial year with
• Ordinary consolidated net income; respect to the three-years of reference for the objectives
• Group Opex; of the 2022 LTI Plan (i.e. “deferred payment”).
• Funds from operations/Consolidated net financial
debt; For more information on the contents of the 2022 remu-
• System Average Interruption Duration Index – SAIDI neration policy, refer to the Report on the Enel remunera-
(gateway objective), commercial complaints on the tion policy for 2022 and on the compensation paid in 2021,
free commodities market in Italy (gateway objec- available on the Company website (www.enel.com).
tive) and commercial complaints on a Group level;
• Safety in the workplace; Finally, the table below presents for 2019, 2020, 2021 and
–
for the DRS, the respective MBO identify the annual 2022 the ratio between the total remuneration accrued by
objectives and specific objectives correlated to the the Chief Executive Officer/General Manager of Enel and
Strategic Plan and identified together with the Ad- the average gross annual remuneration of Group employ-
ministration, Finance and Control Function and by the ees (i.e. “pay ratio”). This report is indicated, for complete
People and Organization Function; disclosure, also in reference to only the fixed component
•
a long-term variable component linked to participation of the remunerations in question.
2022 2021 2020
60x
Pay Ratio – Ratio between the total remuneration of the CEO/GM of Enel 90x 143x
and the average annual gross remuneration of Group employees(1) (32x fixed (33x fixed (35x fixed
remuneration) remuneration) remuneration)
(1) To eliminate the exchange rate effect, the 2021 and 2020 amounts were recalculated using the 2022 exchange rate.
Enel Group risk governance model
2-9 2-10 2-11 2-12 2-13 2-14
When performing its industrial and commercial activities, adopted by Enel, the Group has also implemented a risk
the Enel Group is exposed to risks that could influence its governance model based on specific “pillars”, as well as
economic and financial results if they are not effectively a homogeneous taxonomy of risks (so-called “risk cata-
monitored, managed and mitigated. logue”) that facilitates management and organic repre-
In this regard, in compliance with the architecture of the sentation.
Internal Control and Risk Management System (“ICRMS”)(2)
The “pillars” of risk governance
Enel has adopted a reference framework concerning risk management, monitoring, control and reporting measures
governance that is expressed in detail through specific for each of the identified risk categories.
Risk
1 Lines 2 Group Risk 3 Local risk 4 5 6
Appetite Policy Reporting
of defense Committee committees
Framework
•
1. Lines of defense. The Group’s arrangements are struc- the definition of risk response strategies.
tured along three lines of defense for risk management, The Group Risk Committee generally meets four times
monitoring and control activities, in compliance with a year and can also be convened, where deemed nec-
the principle of segregating roles in the main areas in essary, by the Chief Executive Officer and by the head
respect of significant risks. of the Risk Control unit, which is part of the Administra-
tion, Finance and Control Function. The committee met
2. Group Risk Committee. This body, set up at manage- four times during 2022.
ment level and chaired by the Chief Executive Officer,
is responsible for strategic guidance and risk manage- 3. Integrated and wide-spread system of local risk com-
ment supervision through: mittees. The presence of specific local risk commit-
•
the analysis of the main exposures and the main risk tees, according to the main global Business Lines and
issues for the Group; Countries and Regions of the Group and chaired by the
•
the adoption of specific risk policies applicable to respective top managers, provides adequate oversight
Group companies in order to identify the roles and of the most characteristic risks at the local level The
responsibilities for the risk management, monitoring coordination of these committees with the Group Risk
and control processes, in compliance with the prin- Committee facilitates the opportunity for sharing infor-
ciple of organizational separation between the units mation and mitigation strategies regarding the most
responsible for management and those responsible significant exposures with the Group’s Top Manage-
for the monitoring and control of risks; ment, as well as local implementation of the guidelines
•
the approval of specific operating limits, authoriz- and strategies defined at Group level.
ing, where necessary and appropriate, exceptions to
these limits for specific circumstances or needs;
(2) More details can be found in the Report on Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure (www.enel.com, “Investors” section), as well as in the ICRMS
guidelines available in the “Governance” section.
4. Risk Appetite Framework (“RAF”). The Risk Appetite are represented in specific policies and organization-
Framework represents the framework of reference for al documents defined according to specific approval
determining the appetite for risk and is an integrated and procedures that involve the directly involved Company
formalized system of elements that enable the definition structures.
and application of a single approach to the manage-
ment, measurement and control of each risk. The RAF is 6. Reporting. Specific and regular information flows on
summarized in the Risk Appetite Statement, a document risk exposures and metrics, broken down at Group lev-
that briefly describes the identified risk strategies and el and by individual global business line or geograph-
the indicators and/or limits applicable to each risk. ical area, allow Enel’s top management and corporate
bodies to have an integrated view of the Group’s main
5. Risk policy. The allocation of responsibilities, the co- risk exposures, both current and prospective.
ordination mechanisms and the main control activities
The Group’s “risk catalogue” and the main ESG risks
Enel has adopted a risk catalogue that represents a point organizational units involved in their management.
of reference at the Group level and for all corporate units The risk catalogue groups the types of risk into macro-cat-
involved in risk management and monitoring processes. egories, which include, as shown below, strategic, financial
The adoption of a common language facilitates the map- and operational risks, (non)-compliance risks, risks related
ping and comprehensive representation of risks within the to governance and culture as well as digital technology.
Group, thus facilitating the identification of the main types
of risk that impact Group processes and the roles of the
Governance Financial Compliance
and culture
RISKS
Digital
Strategic technology Operational
•
Due to the nature of its business and its geographical dis- the analyses of some of the most highly internationally
tribution, the Group is exposed to different types of ESG accredited ESG rating agencies, which use specific risk
risk (environmental, social, and governance), identified assessment systems to rate the level of company perfor-
within the reference framework of risk categories adopted mance in relation to sustainability.
by Enel.
The following aspects were considered in order to identify In the risk identification and assessment stage, the “Pre-
the main potential ESG risks: cautionary Principle”(3) was applied, particularly in relation
•
the results of the materiality analysis (see the section to risks relating to the environment, health, and safety. For
“Our strategy for sustainable progress”); each type of risk, specific actions have been identified to
•
the 2023 Global Risk Report of the World Economic Fo- mitigate effects and ensure correct management. Enel
rum (WEF), involving more than 1,000 experts and lead- also applies this principle to risk management, especially
ers from all over the world; with regard to the development and introduction of new
•
the risk assessments carried out as part of Enel’s due products/technologies, planning of operating assets and
diligence process on human rights, which involved nu- the development and construction of new plants/assets.
merous experts from different sectors, including civil
society, academic institutions, local communities, cus- The following is a description of the main ESG risk types
tomers and suppliers, in the various countries in which and the actions intended to mitigate the effects and as-
the Group operates; sure their correct management.
STRATEGIC
Risk definition
Macroeconomic and Risk of ineffective identification, assessment and monitoring of global economic, financial, political and social trends
geopolitical trends and monetary, fiscal and trade policies evolutions.
Legislative
Risk of adverse evolution of legislative or regulatory landscape, and/or ineffective identification, assessment, man-
and regulatory
agement and monitoring of legislative/regulatory evolutions, communication of new compliance duties, execution
development
of advocacy activities and internal gap analysis. Lack of a systematic assessment process on regulatory exposures
Competitive
coming from new strategic and business initiatives.
landscape
Risk of ineffective identification, assessment and monitoring of evolutionary market trends that may impact Group
competitive positioning, growth and profitability.
Reference scenario and description of risk
In 2023, the macroeconomic context will see inflation levels well above the objectives of Central Banks in almost all
economies.
Even if it is expected for inflation to moderate gradually during the year, some underlying inflationary dynamics relat-
ed to final services and goods could remain persistent over the coming quarters.
To address this, Central Banks could delay the process of normalizing their monetary policies, which will further ex-
acerbate financial conditions.
This represents a strong risk especially in emerging economies such as Latin America, where further generalized
worsening of the risk appetite could lead to further capital outflows and greater costs for the bond issues for local
governments. Furthermore, new risks can resurface with the spread of new Covid-19 variants, which could force
governments to reintroduce measures that restrict mobility and, as a result, generate new distortions on a supply
chain level.
(3) Rio Declaration on the Environment and Development (Rio de Janeiro, June 3-14, 1992), Principle 15.
Mitigation actions and associated strategic goals
The considerable internationalization of the Group – which has a presence in many regions, including South
America, North America and Africa – requires Enel to consider country risk, i.e., risks of a macroeconomic, fi-
nancial, institutional, social or climatic nature and those specifically associated with the energy sector whose
occurrence could have a significant adverse impact on both revenue flows and the value of corporate assets.
Enel has adopted a quantitative Open Country Risk assessment model capable of specifically monitoring the
riskiness of the countries in which it operates. The Open Country Risk model offer a broader view of the risk
factors that can impact a country. The model is divided into four risk components: economic, institutional and
political, social, and energy factors.
More specifically, the Open Country Risk model has the ambition to measure the economic resilience of each
country, which is defined as a balanced position with respect to the external environment, effectiveness of do-
mestic policies, the vulnerability of the banking and corporate system that can predict systemic crisis, attrac-
tiveness in terms of economic growth and, ultimately, a quantification of extreme climate events as a source of
environmental and economic stress (economic factors). In addition, an assessment is performed of the robust-
ness of institutions and the political context (institutional and political factors), an in-depth analysis of social
phenomenon and human rights targeted toward measuring the level of well-being, inclusion and social progress
(social factors), the efficiency of the energy system and its position within the energy transition process, which are
essential factors for assessing the sustainability of investments over a medium-long term period (energy factors).
Risk definition
Climate change Risk of ineffective identification, assessment and management of risks related to climate changes – caused by
acute and chronic events (physical risks) and by effects of regulatory, technology and market trends arising from
the transition to a lower-carbon economy (transition risks) – through strategic and operating initiatives of adap-
tation and mitigation of climate risks.
Reference scenario and description of risk
The physical risks arising from climate change can be classified as acute (or extreme events) or chronic: the
former are linked to extremely intense weather-climatic conditions, while the latter refer to gradual and endur-
ing changes in climatic conditions.
Extreme events may expose the Group to potential unavailability of assets and infrastructure, service resto-
ration costs, inconvenience for customers, etc. Chronic changes in climatic conditions, on the other hand,
may expose the Group to other physical risks or opportunities (depending on the geographical location): for
example, structural changes in rainfall or wind patterns could impact the Group’s business in generation terms,
while structural temperature changes can impact electricity demand.
With regard to the energy transition process towards a more sustainable model with a progressive electrifica-
tion and reduction in CO emissions in line with the Group’s decarbonization strategy, there are risks, but above
2
all opportunities, tied to both the changing regulatory context and the technological and electrification trends,
and resulting market developments, with potential effects also on commodity and energy prices..
Mitigation actions and associated strategic goals
In order to facilitate the proper identification and management of risks and opportunities related to climate
change, a Group policy was published in 2021. The policy describes common guidelines for assessing the risks
and opportunities arising from climate change. The “Climate change risks and opportunities” policy defines a
shared approach for the integration of climate change and energy transition issues into the Group’s processes
and activities, thus informing industrial and strategic choices to improve business resilience and long-term
sustainable value creation, consistent with the adaptation and mitigation strategy.
A detailed description of the strategic objectives and mitigation actions/management methods is provided in
the “Zero emissions ambition” chapter of this document.
OPERATIONAL
Risk definition
Environment Risk that inappropriate working operations or machineries may adversely impact on the environment quality and
ecosystems involved.
Risk of a breach in complying with international, country or local environmental laws and regulations.
Reference scenario and description of risk
In recent years, a growing sensitivity of the entire community has emerged in relation to risks linked to models
of development that generate impacts on the quality of the environment and on ecosystems, with the exploita-
tion of scarce natural resources (including raw materials and water).
In some cases, synergistic effects between these impacts, such as global warming and the growing exploita-
tion and degradation of water resources, increase the risk of environmental emergencies arising in the most
sensitive areas of the planet, with the risk of competition among different water resource uses, i.e. industrial,
agricultural, and civil.
To address these needs, institutions are updating environmental regulations to be more restrictive, placing
increasingly stringent constraints on the development of new industrial initiatives, obliging or facilitating a shift
away from technologies considered to be no longer sustainable in what are seen as the highest impact sectors.
Also the international commitment to mitigating impacts on biodiversity is growing, as already shown in Europe
by the Green Deal and introduced in 2022 by the Global Biodiversity Framework approved at COP 15 in Montre-
al. In this context, companies in each sector, and especially leading companies, increasingly aware that environ-
mental risks are also economic risks, are urged to step up their commitment and take on greater responsibility
in identifying and adopting innovative and sustainable technical solutions and development models.
Mitigation actions and associated strategic goals
Enel has made the effective prevention and minimization of environmental impacts and risks a foundational
element of each project across its entire life cycle. The adoption of ISO 14001-certified Environmental Man-
agement Systems certified within the Group ensures the presence of structured policies and procedures to
identify and manage the environmental risks and opportunities associated with all corporate activities.
A structured control plan combined with actions and improvement objectives inspired by the best environ-
mental practices, with requirements higher than those linked to simple environmental regulatory compliance,
mitigates the risk of impacts on the environmental matrix, reputational damage and legal disputes. An import-
ant contribution is also made by the multiplicity of actions to achieve the challenging environmental improve-
ment goals established by Enel, concerning e.g. atmospheric emissions, waste produced, and water consump-
tion, especially in high water stress areas, and impacts on habitats and species.
The risk of water scarcity is directly mitigated by Enel’s development strategy, which is based on the growth
of generation from renewable sources that are essentially not dependent on the availability of water for their
operation. Special attention is also devoted to assets in areas with a high level of water stress, in order to
develop technological solutions to reduce consumption. Ongoing collaboration with local river basin manage-
ment authorities enables us to adopt the most effective shared strategies for the sustainable management of
hydroelectric generation assets.
Finally, suitable actions are being implemented for ecosystems in order to protect, restore and conserve bio-
diversity, the natural species in the habitats, respecting the principle of mitigation hierarchy (avoid, minimize,
restore and compensate), as well as suitable terrestrial, marine and river monitoring activities to check the
effectiveness of the adopted measures.
Enel is an active part of the international debate with stakeholders and the networks with the most influence on
the topic (for example, Business for Nature, Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosure, World Business
Council for Sustainable Development and Science Based Targets for Nature).
For the issues related to nature and biodiversity, also refer to the “Conservation of natural capital” chapter in
this document.
Risk definition
Health and safety Risk that inappropriate working environments, structures, machineries and business operations may negatively
impact on health & safety conditions of employees and other stakeholders involved.
Risk of a breach in complying with international, country or local laws and regulations on health and safety.
Reference scenario and description of risk
The main health and safety risks to which Enel’s people and contractors are exposed are related to the operat-
ing assets carried out at the Group’s sites and its assets. In this context, violation of the laws, regulations, and
procedures in force concerning to health and safety, workplaces, management of structures, company assets
and processes, which can have a negative impact on the health of employees, workers, and stakeholders, can
give rise to the risk of administrative or judicial penalties with associated economic-financial and reputational
impacts. The main operational risks for safety and health are evaluated in depth at each site or Company asset.
These risks were identified by analyzing the main events that occurred in the past three years. In particular,
in relation to probability of occurrence, mechanical risks (falls, knocks, crushing and cuts) are the most likely,
whilst in terms of potential associated impact, electrical risks are those with the most severe consequences
(fatalities).
Also, in relation to the Group’s presence in different geographical contexts worldwide, employees and con-
tractors may be exposed to health risks relating to emerging infectious diseases, of epidemic and potentially
pandemic nature, which may affect their good health and well-being.
Mitigation actions and associated strategic goals
Enel has adopted a Declaration of Commitment to Health and Safety, signed by the Group’s Top Management.
For its implementation, each of the Group’s Business Lines has its own Occupational Health and Safety Man-
agement System in compliance with international standard BS OHSAS 45001, based on identifying hazards,
qualitative and quantitative risk assessment, planning and implementing preventive and protective measures,
verifying the effectiveness of preventive and protective measures, and any corrective actions required.
The Enel Group has defined a structured health management system based on preventive and protective mea-
sures, functional also in respect of the development of a corporate culture oriented towards promoting men-
tal-physical health and the organizational well-being of workers, and also the balance between the professional
and personal spheres.
This system also considers the rigorous selection and management of contractors and suppliers, promoting
their involvement in continuous safety performance improvement programs.
Furthermore, with regard to emergencies relating to risks resulting from the current and persistent pandemic
scenario, a unit has been set up within the Holding P&O Function with references in each Business Line and
Country, in order to assure the definition of the global strategy and policies for management of the emergency
and their adoption in every Group organization.
In particular, this organizational structure and the related management processes make it possible to direct,
integrate and monitor, both at Group and Country level, all the prevention, protection and intervention actions
aimed at protecting the health of employees and contractors, also in relation to exogenous health risk factors
that may not be strictly related to work activities.
Further information on risk management is given in the "Occupational health and safety” chapter.
Risk definition
Customers’ needs Risk of failure of Group’s products and services in achieving customers’ expectations and needs in terms of quality,
and satisfaction accessibility, sustainability and innovation.
Reference scenario and description of risk
The leadership of a company like Enel necessarily passes through customer care and attention to quality ser-
vice, aspects that refer not only to the supply of electricity and/or natural gas, but also and above all to the
intangible aspects of the service perceived by the customer.
Potential increase in the number of vulnerable customers and energy poverty due to an increase in the price
of electricity.
Mitigation actions and associated strategic goals
The Company is constantly committed to maximizing value for customers:
• through a robust business model that focuses on the continuous improvement of efficiency, effectiveness and
resilience in process management (activation of new services, billing, payments and credit, customer focus)
and digitalization.
• making them more aware with offers geared towards increasing awareness of their consumption, different time
slots, rewards for reducing consumption compared to the past, clear and simple communication;
• proactively managing their needs;
• accompanying them toward electrification.
Furthermore, Enel supplies innovative and inclusive products and services for customers of all ages, weak, des-
titute, marginalized, vulnerable families (for example the so-called “social bonus” as a form of support for paying
the bills for vulnerable families).
The Group monitors the rate of customer satisfaction in every Country in which it operates through specific sur-
veys and analysis of the received feedback.
Further information on risk management is provided in the “Clean electrification” chapter
Risk definition
Procurement, Risk of ineffective procurement or contract management activities, due to inadequate requirements definition
logistics and supply or supplier qualification process, a frequent recourse to direct awarding, scouting activities shortcomings,
chain poor monitoring over the fulfillment of contractual duties, non-application of penalties.
Reference scenario and description of risk
Enel could be exposed to reputational, economic or financial risks following ineffective procurement activities
along the entire process. Starting from the supplier qualification phase in which, for example, an analysis is not
performed regarding environmental and social aspects (including work practices, such as refusal of forced or
child labor, respect for diversity and non-discrimination, freedom of association and collective bargaining, fair
and favorable working conditions); during the tender stage, not requiring specific sustainability requirements;
during the entire contract period without correctly monitoring the requirements applied in the tender; in the
case of excessive recourse to direct awards, and the failure to apply penalties.
Mitigation actions and associated strategic goals
Group procurement processes and the related governance documents constitute a structured system of
standards and checkpoints that make it possible to combine the achievement of economic business goals with
full compliance with the fundamental principles set down in the Policy on Human Rights, Code of Ethics, Enel
Global Compliance Program, and Zero Tolerance of Corruption Plan, while continuing to promote initiatives
aimed at sustainable economic development.
These principles are expressed in the processes and organizational measures that Enel has decided to adopt
from a self-regulation point of view in order to establish relationships of trust with all its stakeholders and
to define stable and constructive relations that do not only guarantee economic competitiveness but that
account for the best practices in essential areas for the Group, such as the refusal of forced and child labor,
promotion of occupational health and safety conditions, and environmental responsibility. Thanks to greater
interaction and integration with the external world and with the various parts of the Company organization, the
procurement process is taking on an increasingly central role in value creation as it contributes to creating a
resilient and sustainable supply chain, thinking in terms of circular economy, encouraging innovation, sharing
the Group’s values and objectives with suppliers who, as such, become partners and enabler for achieving
Enel’s targets.
More specifically, reward factors are introduced in the tenders, aimed at generating virtuous behavior on the
part of our suppliers: for example, the environmental impact of any customer is strongly influenced by the im-
pact of its upstream supply chain. Global Procurement therefore pushes its suppliers to objectively measure
their carbon footprint and to embark on pathways of improvement.
From the perspective of the procurement process, the preferred tool is that of a tender, which guarantees
maximum competition and equal opportunity of access to all operators having the necessary technical, eco-
nomic-financial, environmental, safety, human rights, legal and ethical characteristics. Procurement by direct
award and without competitive bidding can occur only in exceptional suitably motivated circumstances in
compliance with relevant statutory legislation.
Moreover, the supplier qualification system, the same one throughout the Enel Group, checks – even before
the procurement process starts – that potential suppliers are in line with the strategic corporate vision and with
expectations in relation to all the mentioned profiles and requirements.
With regard to the risk governance system, the Group is focused on the application of metrics that indicate
the level of risk before and after the mitigation action, in order to implement precautionary actions to reduce
uncertainty to a tolerable level or to mitigate any impacts in all business, technological and geographical areas.
The effectiveness of risk management in the supply chain is monitored using specific indicators, including
the probability of insolvency, the concentration of contracts with individual suppliers or industrial groups, the
supplier’s dependence on Enel, the performance index for proper conduct during the tender, quality, punctu-
ality and sustainability in the execution of the contract, Country risk, etc., for which thresholds are defined that
guide the definition of the procurement, negotiation and award strategy of a tender, allowing informed choices
based on potential risks and befits (savings).
During the Covid-19 emergency, actions were taken, which were made structural, for the differentiation of
procurement sources (to prevent interruptions in the supply chain) and for performing, remotely, activities that
would normally require physical interaction between Enel and the supplier (e.g. company on-site inspections).
Furthermore, in order to counter the consequences of the geopolitical situation in Ukraine, which increased
market volatility and further stressed the supply chain, which already seriously tested during the period of the
Covid-19 pandemic, Global Procurement constantly monitors the activities inherent to the supply/logistics
chain, also with the active participation of the suppliers, through a specific contractual obligation to monitor
in order to mitigate the risks deriving from market shortages or critical issues regarding logistics and business
interruptions.
Further information on risk management is provided in the “Sustainable supply chain” chapter.
Risk definition
Business Risk of partial or total interruption of business operations arising from technical failures, assets and plants
interruption malfunctions, human errors, sabotages, raw materials unavailability or adverse weather events.
Reference scenario and description of risk
Enel may be exposed to the risk of judicial or administrative sanctions, economic or financial losses, and repu-
tational damage as a result of partial or total interruption of commercial operations and of electricity supplies
to customers, caused by technical faults, malfunctions of assets and plants, human error, sabotage, unavail-
ability of raw materials or adverse weather events, or infectious diseases with epidemic or pandemic potential
that may limit the normal functioning of the Group’s activities or of its supply chain.
Mitigation actions and associated strategic goals
Enel has systems and mechanisms to guarantee a continuous and safe energy supply to the national electrical
systems of the countries in which it operates. Enel is therefore constantly at work to develop and improve the
efficiency of the transport and distribution network, in coordination with the other entities operating on the
network infrastructure in various capacities. Enel carries out actions of network development, modernization,
and maintenance on the infrastructure existing in all Countries, with the primary aim of improving the quality of
the service delivered and reducing the number and duration of outages. Enel also constantly takes operational
efficiency and safety measures to guarantee correct functioning and availability of all its power plants. Lastly,
the Group’s assets are covered by adequate insurance mechanisms to protect the Company from potential
negative economic consequences resulting from future and uncertain events.
Moreover, with special reference to the management of critical events, Enel has drawn up Group, Business Line
and Country policies to ensure effectiveness of the decision-making process in the management of any event
that could impair continuity of the public service and the Company’s business, including health emergencies
with a local and/or global impact.
Enel implements adequate protocols, plans and actions to ensure the smooth running of its business activity
worldwide or, if necessary, its rapid recovery in the event of service interruptions.
Especially in relation to the health emergency, Enel defines specific protocols designed to limit the spread
of contagion among the people involved in operating assets and consequently guarantee the continuity of
service.
Further information on risk management is provided in the “Clean electrification” and “Sustainable supply
chain” chapters.
Risk definition
People and Risk of inadequacy of Group’s organizational structures or lack of internal skills caused by the absence or inad-
organization equacy of training programs, ineffectiveness of incentive schemes, inadequate turnover planning process or
inability to define effective employees recruiting processes and retention policies.
Reference scenario and description of risk
Enel has placed sustainability at the center of its strategy as the core of its business model in order to contrib-
ute toward reaching the sustainable development goals of the United Nations 2030 Agenda. The Group has di-
vided sustainability into different geographic, economic and social contexts to guide the just transition, which
is essential for the future of the planet, accelerating the aims to lead the transition towards a more sustainable
development system, essential for the future of the planet, accelerating the process of decarbonization of its
energy mix through the increase in renewables and the ever-increasing electrification of consumption. The
profound social, economic and cultural transformations we are experiencing, from energy transition to the
digitalization and technological innovation processes have a profound impact also on the world of work, re-
newing the paradigms, imposing significant cultural and organizational changes that require new professional
profiles and skills.
To face the change, it is mandatory to act in an inclusive manner, putting people at the center in relation to
their social and work aspects, with tools suitable for facing this epic transformation. Organizations must be
increasingly oriented toward new agile and flexible work and business models that are sustainable along the
entire value chain. It is also essential to adopt policies that value diversity and the talents of everyone, with the
awareness that the contribution of the individual represents an essential component for the creation of wide-
spread and shared value.
Mitigation actions and associated strategic goals
Recognition of the value of a person as unique, constant listening, empathy, sharing, passion, involvement are
only some of the key words that guide our way of working and experiencing the Company, along a pathway
that starts from I and arrives at Us.
The centrality of persons and the management of human capital take on a fundamental role in energy tran-
sition as enabling factors and represent the priorities to which specific objectives are linked, the main ones
including: development of digital skills and expertise, promotion of reskilling and upskilling programs for our
people (continuous, customized, flexible, accessible and transversal) to ensure long life employability, the shar-
ing of best sector practices and training targeted also to those who work with our people, both suppliers
and contractors, the correct wide-spread involvement of the Company purpose, which ensures better re-
sults supported by higher personal satisfaction, understood as motivation and well-being; development of the
workplace and performance appraisal systems; the dissemination, in all the Countries in which the Group is
present, of the diversity and inclusion policy, as well as an inclusive organizational culture based on principles
of non-discrimination and equal opportunities, key drivers to attract and retain talent.
The Group is committed to strengthening the resilience and flexibility of its organizational models through
the simplification and digitalization of processes, in order to enable the autonomy and responsibilities of the
individuals and teams, strengthening our people empowerment processes and favoring the entrepreneurial
approach through a “gentle” leadership model that promotes talents, attitudes and aspirations of persons in
the affirmation of Us. The hybrid work method, which combines work on site and remote working in flexible
proportions that take the needs of everyone into account, such as the use of innovative and flexible organiza-
tional models, are tools targeted toward sustaining this evolution of the organizational culture in terms of trust
and responsibility rather than hierarchy and control.
In line with this strategy, also social dialog is evolving toward a model that increasingly reinforces the centrality
of persons. For example, Enel and the Italian trade unions signed the “Charter of the Person”, an innovative pro-
tocol focused on the well-being, involvement, motivation and participation of the individual, whose principles
were also welcomed and implemented in other Countries where the Group is present.
The commitment is also targeted toward creating figures in the organization who, as “ambassadors”, promote
the adoption of shared models and behaviors that are focused on the sustainability of relations.
Further information on risk management is provided in the “Empowering Enel people” chapter.
GOVERNANCE AND CULTURE
Risk definition
Stakeholders’ Risk to ineffectively engage key stakeholders on Enel’s strategic positioning on sustainability and financial goals
engagement due to a lack of understanding, anticipating or orienting their expectations, which might cause an incomplete
integration of such expectations into Group’s business strategy and sustainability planning processes, with a
potential negative impact on its reputation and competitiveness.
Reference scenario and description of risk
The risk of ineffective engagement of key stakeholders in relation to the strategic positioning of Enel on sus-
tainability and financial objectives, due to the lack of understanding, anticipation, or orientation of their ex-
pectations, could cause incomplete integration of such expectations within the Company’s business strategy
and sustainability planning processes, with a potential negative impact on its reputation and competitiveness.
Enel currently operates in a vast geographical area, with a presence in more than 40 countries distributed in
five continents, conducting business activities that call for the development of infrastructure in local areas,
which can provoke criticism or potential disputes with communities in some cases. Such conditions could
lead to delays in the execution of projects for new sites and impacts on operational continuity, with a potential
negative economic-financial and reputational effect.
On the other hand, Enel’s commitment to decarbonize its energy mix – with a particular focus on the coal min-
ing phase – could have a potential negative impact in local areas that are heavily dependent on coal operations
(mining and electricity generation) in terms of job losses and socio-economic development. This could ulti-
mately expose Enel to reputational risks or even delay the Group’s achievement of the decarbonization goals
set out in its Strategic Plan. In the meantime, the outlook of investors is shifting fast: the changes in progress
and challenges presented by the modern world are also revolutionizing the method of investing.
ESG investors are growing constantly: at December 31, 2022, SRI funds constituted approximately 14.9% of the
share capital (14.6% higher at December 31, 2021), while PRI (Principles for Responsible Investment) signatory
investors represent 42.1% of the share capital. (vs 46.6% at December 31, 2021). The possible incorrect or in-
complete disclosure by Enel of the results obtained, and likewise ineffective communications to the financial
community of its strategy, which aims to create value for customers, society, and the environment, could have
significant negative impacts on the assessment of Enel’s shares and bonds.
Mitigation actions and associated strategic goals
In order to identify the priority issues for the Company and its stakeholders, materiality analysis is carried out
annually, aimed at engaging and listening to all the Group’s main stakeholders.
From an operational viewpoint, knowledge of specific local requirements and continually listening to the needs
of stakeholders are fundamental elements for mapping as comprehensively as possible the potential positive,
but also negative impacts that the Group’s activity has on the communities where our plants operate. Since
2015, a Creating Shared Value (CSV) model has been in force, centered on the integration of sustainability in
the business, in which the Company’s success is directly related to the prosperity of the communities where
it operates.
The CSV model, applied to all Business Lines, therefore introduces a new way of managing community relations
and integrating socio-environmental factors within our business processes and throughout the entire value
chain, with special reference to operations of business development, engineering and construction and pro-
curement, in addition to the management and maintenance of assets.
Through specific context analysis tools, stakeholder mapping and the definition of materiality matrices and
action plans, the development of a business project is accompanied by initial exploratory approaches to its
final definition.
In addition, Enel promotes a fair and inclusive energy transition, through global reconversion and hybridization proj-
ects, which currently involve more than 40 sites around the world, with the aim of finding sustainable solutions (fo-
cused primarily on the development of energy reconversion and hybridization, promoting the circular economy and
innovation) for the areas involved with the closure of conventional plants. By means of dialog with shareholders and
bondholders, the Investor Relations unit collects feedback on how to integrate and improve the Group’s reporting
process and make its communications as effective as possible, meeting the needs of the financial markets.
Further information on risk management can be found in the “Our strategy for sustainable progress” section and
in the “Engaging communities” and “Sound governance” chapters.
DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY
Risk definition
Cyber security Risk of cyber-attacks and sensitive or massive corporate and customers data stealing, ascribable to a lack of security
of networks, operating systems and databases.
Reference scenario and description of risk
The speed of technological development, which brings an endless stream of new challenges, the frequency
and intensity of the ever-increasing number of cyberattacks, as well as the tendency to strike critical infra-
structure and strategic industrial sectors, highlight a risk that can cause normal business operations to grind
to a halt in extreme cases. Cyberattacks have changed dramatically in recent years: the number has grown
exponentially, as has their level of complexity and impact, with timely identification of sources becoming in-
creasingly difficult. Within the scope of the Group, the management of the cyber security risk results, among
other aspects, from the numerous contexts in which it operates (data, industry, and people), in addition to the
intrinsic complexity and interconnection of resources which, over the years, have been increasingly integrated
into routine operating processes.
Mitigation actions and associated strategic goals
The Group has designed and adopted a holistic governance model in relation to cyber security, which is applied
to the Information Technology (IT), Operational Technology (OT) and the Internet of Things (IoT) sectors. The
framework is based on the commitment of Top Management, the global strategic approach, the involvement
of all business areas, as well as the units engaged in the design and implementation of systems. The framework
also strives to use the best technology available on the market to design ad hoc business processes, also work-
ing on the human factor through initiatives targeted toward increasing awareness and knowledge regarding
cyber security by people, making them the first lever of company defense. Furthermore, the framework directs
the regulatory requirements regarding IT security, such as the execution of in-depth tests (in IT, OT and IoT
areas) that aim to identify and remove vulnerabilities, identify and strengthen people’s IT awareness and imple-
ment regulatory requirements related to IT security.
Moreover, the Group has defined and adopted a risk management method for IT security in accordance with
risk-based and cyber security by design approaches, thereby making the corporate risk analysis a key step in
all strategic decisions and integrating the safety requirements along the entire solution and service life cycle.
Enel has also set up a Cyber Emergency Readiness Team (CERT) to respond to and proactively manage possible
incidents in the field of cyber security. In addition, since 2019, in order to mitigate exposure not only with tech-
nical countermeasures, the Group has taken out insurance on the risks related to cyber security.
Further information on risk management is provided in the “Digitalization” and “Innovation” chapters.
Risk definition
Digitalization, Risk of managing ineffective business processes and supporting higher operating costs due to a lack of digita-
IT effectiveness, lization in terms of workflows coverage, systems integration and adoption of new technologies.
and service
Risk of ineffective support of IT systems to business processes and operating activities.
continuity
Risk of exposure of IT/OT systems to service interruptions and data losses.
Reference scenario and description of risk
The Group is carrying out a complete digital transformation of the management of the entire energy value
chain, developing new business models and digitalizing its business processes, integrating the systems and
adopting new technologies. One result of this digital transformation is that the Group is increasingly exposed
to risks relating to the operations of IT systems integrated across the Company, with impacts on processes and
operating assets that could lead to the exposure of IT and OT systems to service interruptions or data losses.
Mitigation actions and associated strategic goals
Control of such risks is guaranteed by a series of internal measures developed by the Group to oversee the
digital transformation. In particular, an internal control system has been set up, which introduces control points
along the entire IT value chain, enabling us to prevent the emergence of risks relating to such issues as the
creation of services that do not meet business needs, the failure to implement adequate security measures
and service interruptions. The internal control system oversees both the activities performed in-house and
those outsourced to external associates and service providers. Enel is also promoting the dissemination of
digital culture and skills within the Group, so as to guide the digital transformation successfully and minimize
the associated risks.
Further information on risk management is provided in the “Digitalization” and “Innovation” chapters.
COMPLIANCE
Risk definition
Data protection Risk of a breach in complying with applicable data protection and privacy laws.
Reference scenario and description of risk
In the era of digitalization and globalization of markets, Enel’s business strategy is focused on accelerating the
process of transformation towards a business model based on a digital platform, by means of a data driven and
customer-focused approach, which is being developed throughout the entire value chain.
The Company, which is present in more than 40 countries, has the largest customer based in the public utilities
sector (around 70 million customers), with a current workforce of approximately 67 thousand people; conse-
quently, the Group’s new business model calls for management of an ever larger volume of personal data, to
reach the financial and business results set down in the 2022-2024 Strategic Plan.
This implies an exposure to the risks associated with personal data protection (also due to the increasing volume
of privacy regulations in the majority of countries in which Enel is present). These risks can take the form of a loss
of confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the personal data of customers, employees, and others (e.g. suppli-
ers), resulting in the application of penalties in proportion to global sales, obstructing processes with consequent
economic or financial losses and reputational damage.
Mitigation actions and associated strategic goals
In order to manage and mitigate this risk, Enel has adopted a global model of personal data governance, also
through the assignment of Data Protection Officers – “DPOs” – both at a global and Country level, as well as
through the adoption of digital compliance instruments to map applications and processes and manage relevant
risks to personal data protection, in compliance with the specific aspects of local sector regulations.
Further information on risk management can be found in the “Data protection” section of this chapter.
Risk definition
Other compliance Other compliance risks: Antitrust compliance and consumers’ rights, Corruption, External disclosure. Financial
risks regulation compliance, Tax compliace, Compliance with other laws and regulations.
Reference scenario and description of risk
Enel may be exposed to the risk of judicial measures, administrative sanctions, economic or financial losses and
reputational damage as a result of:
• illegal or illicit conduct, including active and passive acts of corruption, perpetrated by personnel inside or
outside the Group in order to secure an unjust benefit for themselves or for others;
• infringement of international, national or local laws and regulations concerning: accounting, financial, or tax
discipline, market disclosures, anti-trust and consumer rights issues or other applicable legislative provi-
sions (e.g. rules concerning permitting or contracts, regulation of electricity markets, international sanctions,
etc.). .
Mitigation actions and associated strategic goals
Enel has adopted an Internal Control and Risk Management System expressed in company rules and pro-
cedures that all who work in Enel or on behalf of Enel are required to follow, by means of their respective
contractual commitments. The Internal Control System also includes specific compliance programs, i.e.: the
Code of Ethics, the Zero Tolerance of Corruption Plan (“ZTC Plan”), the Policy on Human Rights, the Policy on
international sanctions, the Enel Global Compliance Program (“EGCP”), the Model pursuant to Italian Legislative
Decree 231/01 and other national compliance programs adopted by Group companies in accordance with
their national legislation. Furthermore, to further pursue its commitment to fighting corruption, Enel volun-
tarily decided to certify its Anti-Bribery Management System (SGPC) in compliance with the requirements of
international standard ISO 37001:2016 (international certification of anti-bribery management systems). This
certification process has involved the Group’s main subsidiaries.
External staff, working for Enel Group company suppliers, undertake to comply with the ethical clauses set out
in their respective contracts, which incorporate references to Enel’s commitment in terms of business integrity
in the pursuit of its activities.
The ongoing monitoring of legislative and regulatory developments at the local, national and international
levels is guaranteed by the operations of specific company Functions with competence in relation to these
matters.
The Sustainability Report, which represents the Consolidated Non-Financial Statement, is subjected to a limit-
ed review by KPMG and for a set of indicators, also providing reasonable assurance.
Further information on risk management is provided in the “Sound governance” chapter and the “Method-
ological note”.
In relation to the specific contexts pursuant to Italian Leg- The other types of risk to which the Enel Group is exposed
islative Decree 254/16 concerning climate change, human are detailed in the “Risk Management” section of the Inte-
rights, and the fight against corruption, we invite you to grated Annual Report available on the website (www.enel.
refer to the sections dedicated to these topics in this Sus- com, “Investors” section).
tainability Report.
Transparency in
institutional processes
Enel constantly manages relations with institutions (local, politicians (for example, by granting the use of its facilities,
national, European, and international) in line with the Enel accepting new recruit recommendations, or awarding con-
Compliance Program, providing complete and transparent sultancy contracts). Enel and its subsidiaries are present in
information with the aim of placing institutional counterparts various trade and employer associations whose role includes
in the best possible position to make the decisions within representing the positioning of its members in the regula-
the sphere of their competence. Enel also contributes to the tory processes inherent in the business activity. The annual
consultation processes regarding political and legislative contributions paid to the above-mentioned organizations in
dossiers on energy and environmental issues. In the context the form of membership fees in 2022 totaled approximately
of relations with European institutions, Enel actively contrib- 9.6 million euros, compared to 8.4 million euros in 2021.(4) In
utes to every phase of the consultation process on political particular, in 2022 the three largest contributions in terms of
and legislative dossiers of corporate interest through careful overall amount concerned AELEC (Asociación de Empresas
monitoring and analysis (see also the chapter “Zero emis- de Energía Eléctrica) in Spain, Confindustria and Elettricità
sions ambition”). Futura in Italy.(5)
The Enel Group has been enrolled in the EU voluntary trans- The institutional dialogue with the trade and employer asso-
parency register since its creation in 2008. The register aims ciations in which Enel and its subsidiaries took part in 2022
to provide citizens with a single and direct access point to concerned the support of regulatory and consultation pro-
information on who carries out activities aimed at influ- cesses, including also the following main issues:
•
encing the EU decision-making process, the interests pur- development of energy policies: including, among other
sued, and the resources invested in these activities (http:// topics, the strategic outlook of the sector, energy efficien-
ec.europa.eu/transparencyregister/public/homePage.do). cy, the growth of renewables, smart grid development and
In line with the provisions of the Code of Ethics, paragraph energy costs;(6)
•
3.26, Enel does not finance political parties, their represen- increasing business competitiveness: including, among
tatives or candidates in Italy or abroad, nor does it sponsor other topics, tax regulation, labor law issues and environ-
conventions or events whose sole purpose is political pro- mental policies.(7)
paganda. It refrains from any direct or indirect pressure on
(4) These amounts include the contributions paid by Enel SpA (including the main Italian companies) and by its foreign subsidiaries Endesa, Enel Américas and
Enel Chile.
(5) Specifically: AELEC (formerly UNESA) 1.9 million euros; Confindustria 1.5 million euros; Elettricità Futura (formerly “Associazione Nazionale delle Imprese
Elettriche”) 0.6 million euros.
(6) The 2022 contribution was 5.5 million euros.
(7) The 2022 contribution was 4.0 million euros.
Values and pillars
of corporate ethics
2-15 2-16 2-23 2-26 3-3 205-1 205-2 205-3
405-1 406-1 408-1 409-1 413-1 415-1
A solid and dynamic ethical system, constantly oriented to- of Ethics, Policy on Human Rights, the Zero Tolerance of Cor-
wards implementing best practices on the national and in- ruption Plan (ZTC Plan), Enel Global Compliance Program, the
ternational levels is the foundational element of the Enel sys- Model pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 231/01, plus any
tem of values underpinning the Company’s operating assets, other national compliance models adopted by Group com-
and of relations entertained with all its key stakeholders. A panies in accordance with local regulations.
system based on compliance programs, including the Code
Code of Ethics
In 2002, Enel adopted at Code of Ethics(8) that expresses the tween the various countries in which Enel operates. Enel also
commitments and ethical responsibilities to which it adheres requires all its main suppliers and partners to adopt conduct
in its operating assets, regulating and harmonizing corpo- in line with the Code’s general principles.
rate conduct according to standards based on the maxi- More information is available on the website https://www.
mum transparency and integrity towards all stakeholders. enel.com/investors/sustainability/daily-commitment/
The Code of Ethics is applicable to the entire Group, not- sound-governance-ethical-conduct/principles-underpin-
withstanding the cultural, social, and economic diversity be- ning-our-work/code-ethics.
Stakeholder reports
Any violation or suspected violation of the ethical system can The reports management process is governed by the
be reported, also anonymously, through a single platform at whistleblowing policy, “Management of anonymous and
Group level (“Ethics Point”), which is accessible at www.enel. non-anonymous reports”, which guarantees anonymity and
ethicspoint.com.(9) The Audit Function receives and analyzes protection against any form of retaliation and also ensures
these reports, performing the related checks and ensuring adequate protection against groundless reports made ma-
uniform treatment at Group level, in compliance with Com- liciously to harm or cause prejudice to individuals and/or
pany policies and local regulations. companies.
KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 %
Reports received n. 172 153 151 2 +12.4
Violations related to incidents of:(10) n. 29 44 26 -15 -34.1
Conflict of interest/corruption n. 9 8 2 +1 +12.5
Misappropriation n. 4 5 14 -1 -20.0
Labor practices(11) n. 11 27 9 -16 -59.3
Community and society n. - 1 - -1 -
Other reasons n. 5 3 1 +2 +66.7
(8) Last update: February 2021.
(9) The Ethics Channel can also be used to send reports regarding the Group’s commitments regarding human rights.
(10) Of the 172 reports received in 2022, 15 are being analyzed. During the year, the verification of all the reports received in 2021 was completed: the number of
confirmed violations for 2021 was therefore revised from 41 to 44. The three additional violations are to be ascribed to a case of conflict of interest and two
cases of inappropriate behaviour related to labor practices.
(11) In 2022 4 violations were recorded relating to cases of discrimination at the workplace, in particular cases of harassment..
During 2022 172 reports were received, recording a slight ply with the internal procedures on health and safety is-
increase as compared to the number of reports received sues, principles approved by the Group’s Human Rights
in 2021 (153), mostly in countries on the South American Policy;
•
content. “Fraud/misappropriation” to the detriment of the Com-
The analyses confirmed a limited number of violations, de- pany.
creased as compared to 2021, referring to the behavior of In addition to having adopted disciplinary measures and/
employees and/or suppliers that does not comply with the or sanctions against the responsible parties, during the
policies on the protection of persons or the internal pro- year training and awareness initiatives implemented by the
cedures regarding: companies of the Enel Group continued in order to pro-
•
“Conflict of interest/corruption” for the pursuit of per- mote behaviors that are in line with the adopted Code of
sonal interests or interests that harm the company; Ethics and policies, which include the events organized in
•
“Labor practices”, connected to inappropriate behavior the South American countries to disseminate a culture of
by individual employees that is detrimental to respect for integrity and ethics in the Company (“semana etica”).
diversity and non-discrimination and the failure to com-
Enel Global Compliance Program (“EGCP”)
In September 2016, Enel approved the Global Compliance with the provision of behavioral standards and areas to be
Program, targeted toward the foreign companies in the preventively monitored – is based on illicit conduct gener-
Group, which is a governance tool aimed at strengthen- ally considered as such in most parts of the countries, such
ing the Group’s ethical and professional commitment to as, for example, offences of corruption, crimes against the
preventing offences committed internationally that might public administration, fraudulent accounting, money laun-
result in corporate criminal liability and reputational risks. dering, offences committed in violation of the regulations
The identification of the relevant types of offences in the on safety at work, environmental offences, etc.
Enel Global Compliance Program – which is associated
Organizational and Management Model pursuant
to Italian Legislative Decree 231/01
Italian Legislative Decree 231 of June 8, 2001 introduced an ready in 2002, Enel – the first in Italy – adopted an Organiza-
administrative (essentially criminal) liability into the Italian legal tional and Management Model that meets the requirements
system for companies in respect of certain types of offences of Legislative Decree 231/01 (Model 231). Since then, it has
committed by directors, managers, or employees in the in- been constantly updated in line with the reference regulatory
terest of or for the benefit of the companies concerned. Al- framework and current organizational context.
Active and passive fight against corruption
3-3 205-1 205-2
In compliance with the 10th Global Compact principle, ac- ance with international standard ISO 37001:2016 (on an-
cording to which “companies are committed to combating ti-bribery management systems).
corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery”, Together with the ZTC Plan, the pillars underpinning the
Enel intends to pursue its commitment to fighting corrup- ABMS are:
•
tion in all its forms – whether direct or indirect – by apply- the Code of Ethics;
•
ing the principles expressed in the pillars of its Anti-Bribery models to prevent the main criminal risks (for exam-
Management System. ple, bribery in relations with public administrations and
Enel’s Anti-Bribery Management System (ABMS) is based among private individuals, environmental offences,
on the Group’s commitment to fighting corruption by ap- corporate offences and, for Italian companies, man-
plying the criteria of transparency and conduct as set out slaughter, severe personal injury or grievous bodily harm
in the Zero Tolerance of Corruption Plan (ZTC Plan) and committed in violation of the rules on the protection
confirmed in the Anti-Bribery Policy adopted in compli- of occupational health and safety), as described by the
applicable regulations on corporate responsibility (i.e. Group Business Lines and the staff Functions; the specific
“Compliance Program”) in the various countries where audit work programs included verifications for the assess-
the Group operates (for example, Organizational Model ment of the risk and suitability of the design and operation
231 for Italian companies, the “Modelo de prevención de of the controls, to complement the periodic activities on
riesgos/Programa de Integridade” for Group companies a sample basis as required by the Compliance Programs
in Spain and South America); adopted by the Group companies.
•
the Enel Global Compliance Program (“EGCP”), a gover- In 2017 Enel SpA was among the first companies in the world to
nance tool aimed at strengthening the Group’s ethical obtain certification of the conformity of its Anti-Bribery Man-
and professional commitment to preventing offences agement system to international standard ISO 37001:2016
committed outside Italy that might result in corporate (“Anti-Bribery Management System”). This certification was
criminal liability and reputational risks. The EGCP applies issued following an independent verification process, carried
to the Group’s non-Italian companies and supplements out by a primary accredited certification body, which was car-
any compliance programs adopted by the same compa- ried out in two separate phases, aimed primarily at certifying
nies, in compliance with local regulations. the adequacy of the design of the Enel Anti-Bribery Manage-
The mentioned governance measures (in relation to which ment System (in terms of governance, roles, and responsibil-
we refer you to the specific section of the website), to- ities, control procedures, etc.), and secondarily at assessing
gether with the current body of procedures, outline an ef- the level of application and effectiveness.
fective prevention system, which is an integral part of the After Enel SpA obtained certification ISO 37001 for its an-
Group’s Internal Control System. ti-bribery management system, it gradually extended the
In 2022 the Audit Function plan included the analysis of the 37001 certification plan to the
suitability of the Internal Control system relevant for the Group's main Italian and foreign subsidiaries, guaranteeing
purposes of the Anti-Bribery Management System for all the maintenance of those already obtained.
Data protection
3-3 418-1
Protection and processing of personal data are an im- ness Lines in compliance concerning data protection,
portant challenge for Enel in the era of digitalization and and monitors the evolution of data protection certifica-
market globalization, and also a constant commitment to tion mechanisms for products and services;
•
ensure continuous improvement of the service we supply Country units: units that monitor the evolution of reg-
to our customers. ulations on a local level and support the local Business
To respond to this challenge in line with the provisions Lines as regards compliance related to data protection.
of the General Data Protection Regulation (EU 2016/679) In 2020 country units were set up in Latin America (Ar-
(“GDPR”), in 2017 Enel set up a specific unit within the Legal gentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Peru), alongside the Eu-
Function (Data Protection Office) and appointed the data ropean area units already in place (Italy, Portugal, Roma-
supervisors (“Data Protection Officer” – DPO). The DPOs nia, Spain).
are appointed based on their professional skills and knowl- The Enel Group has developed a global compliance pro-
edge, and their ability to carry out the assigned tasks in gram on personal data protection, founded on the princi-
accordance with the principle of independence. The Data ples of the main privacy regulations, including the GDPR,
Protection Office is structured as follows: the Brazilian law Lei Geral de Proteção de Dados Pessoais
•
Data Protection Governance: a unit that monitors the (“LGPD”), the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), as
evolution of data protection legislation and defines the well as the local legislation of the countries in which the
Group’s compliance. The office also carries out the role Group operates. This compliance program is translated into
of DPO in countries in which the creation of a local Data a global policy on personal data protection, which defines
Protection Office is not necessary; the privacy principles applicable to all Group companies.
•
Data Protection Staff Holding, Global Procurement and In particular, the Data Protection Office implements pro-
Global Digital Solutions: a unit that promotes privacy by cesses and activities in compliance with the indications
design from phase of process planning at the global lev- of legislation concerning personal data protection and is
el and ensures consistent development at the national committed to drawing up data protection agreements and
level; clauses; planning data governance and corporate policies;
•
Data Protection Global Business Lines and Global Cus- providing consulting in line with the principles of privacy
tomer Operations: a unit that supports the Global Busi- by design and by default; ensuring adequate risk manage-
ment and monitoring the consistency of data protection cessing operation that is changed in light of the imple-
policies within the organization; as well as performing pe- mentation of a remedy plan;
•
riodic and regular training and awareness campaigns for DTIA (Data Transfer Impact Assessment), which makes
personnel on the main Data Protection issues. it possible to evaluate the transfer risk that accounts for
Furthermore, the Audit Function includes specific activ- the methods by means of which the data is transferred,
ities in their work programs targeted toward evaluating as well as the regulatory aspects of the country where
the Internal Control System on Data Protection Risk Man- this data is transferred;
•
agement and on compliance with GDPR: analysis activities Data Breach Management, which permits the struc-
are planned in various geographical areas, also those not tured and timely management of all possible incidents
subject to GDPR, that aim to evaluate the safety measures that involve multiple companies and countries, and the
in systems that contain personal data, commercially-sen- possibility to study these events in order to implement
sitive data and employees data managed in HR processes. common prevention solutions;
•
In order to guarantee full and effective protection of per- Analytics, that, with the definition of precise KPI, makes
sonal data, the Group has adopted a digital platform (Data it possible to continuously analyze, compare and moni-
Protection Platform), which is able to ensure digital com- tor the data and processes processed by the companies.
pliance, through the use of the following tools, based on With specific reference to relationships with its suppliers,
the size and complexity of Enel: the Enel Group Code of Ethics and Policy on Human Rights
•
Processing register, which integrates the registers of expressly require suppliers to have a clear commitment
the data controller and the data processor on a single and to respect the main obligations required by the appli-
platform, guaranteeing the dynamic mapping of the cable privacy regulation. Furthermore, a specific clause in
processing activities and their life cycle, as well as the the Group’s General Contract Conditions extends the prin-
fulfilment of the obligations required by the regulation. ciples of the Enel privacy policies to all suppliers, requiring
For the Enel Group, this tool also represents an essen- them to be committed to handing personal data in compli-
tial resource for designing and monitoring intra-group ance with the obligations imposed by industry legislation.
dynamics; In 2022, the Group’s companies handled more than 19,105
•
Privacy by Design, which makes it possible to create ev- communications concerning personal data protection
ery new project, from the beginning, in line with the prin- from customers, of which: (i) 595 in Romania, (ii) 5,009 in
ciples regarding privacy; Iberia, (iii) 13,376 in Italy and (iv) 125 in Latin America.
•
DPIA (Data Protection Impact Assessment), which Furthermore, the same companies collaborated with the
makes it possible, not only, to perform an evaluation of national authorities, receiving 134 requests for informa-
the effective risks for the freedom and rights of the data tion and clarifications, of which: (i) 2 in Romania, (ii) 105 in
subjects and to monitor the current risk of each pro- Iberia, (iii) 5 in Italy and (iv) 22 in Latin America.
Procedures started by competent Supervisory Authorities
With specific reference to Italy, on March 8, 2021, the tivities, as well as the failed adoption of a comprehensive
Data Protection Authority started a procedure, based on and effective action to contrast the undesired phone calls.
some reports from consumers, for the adoption of correc- The penalty, which also imposed a series of prescriptive
tive measures and sanctions against the Servizio Elettrico measures, was contested by Enel Energia on February 9,
Nazionale (SEN) for presumed violations of privacy regu- 2022 before the Civil Court of Rome which, with an order
lations, in particular due to the performance of undesired dated March 20, 2022, ordered the immediate suspension
phone calls and the wrongful provision of personal data of its effects. On February 15, 2023, the Court of Rome fully
(POD, supply address, tax code, etc.) to unauthorized par- upheld Enel Energia’s appeal and, as a result, canceled the
ties for the promotional purposes of third parties. SEN has penalties issued by the Authority. The publication of the
filed a statement of defence, contesting the charges. On reasons is pending.
April 26, 2021 a hearing was held at the Authority and a Furthermore, during 2022, the Data Protection Author-
decision is pending. ity carried out two inspections, the first concerning
Furthermore, on January 18, 2022, the Data Protection Au- e-distribuzione, regarding the handling of personal data
thority issued an order against Enel Energia, imposing a within the scope of the so-called “Indemnification sys-
fine for approximately 26 million euros on the Company for tem”, which ended with the dismissal of the proceed-
asserted violations of the privacy regulations. In particular, ings, and the second concerning Enel Energia, targeted
the Authority contested the inadequacy of Enel Energia’s toward acquiring information on marketing and tele-
surveillance and control activities for the internal data pro- marketing activities carried out by agencies on behalf
cessing processes, within the scope of telemarketing ac- of the company.
In 2022, in Spain the local control Authority, based on In Romania, during July 2022, the local control Authority,
complaints presented by the data subjects, started 63 after an investigation, issued a penalty equal to 49,337 lei
administrative proceedings against Endesa Energía SA, (10,000 euros) against Enel Energie Muntenia SA for vio-
Endesa X Servicios SL, Edistribución Redes Digitales SL lation of article 32 of GDPR. The company has contested
and Energía XXI Comercializadora de Referencia SL. Many this penalty and is still waiting for the final judgement of
of these proceedings have been dismissed and, in the the Authority.
majority of the cases, the events that triggered the com- In relation to Brazil, ENEL SP notified the local Authority
plaints were resolved thanks to out-of-court settlements. about a data violation that took place in November 2020.
During 2022, Endesa Energía SA received two penalties This administrative procedure was dismissed without pen-
equal respectively to 50,000 and 40,000 euros, issued due alties by the Authority in August 2022. Furthermore, be-
to the conclusion of contracts without the consent of the tween 2021 and 2022, ENEL SP received 2 requests for in-
data subject. formation from the local Authority regarding 2 complaints
In Portugal, in 2022, the local control Authority started 23 from data subjects, for which the company presented the
proceedings against Endesa Energía SA – Sucursal Por- necessary clarifications and after which there were no fur-
tugal, as a result of sending direct marketing communi- ther updates.
cations to data subjects without their valid prior consent. In Colombia, on February 10, 2021, the local control Au-
Endesa presented their defence against these proceed- thority started proceedings against Codensa due to the
ings and is waiting for the decision of the local Authori- failure to observe the terms specified in the regulation
ty. With regard to prior proceedings related to marketing concerning the online maintenance of the personal data of
communications made in 2019 and 2020, for which Ende- a data subject on the company’s website. On February 23,
sa has already presented its defence, in 2022 the Authority 2021, Codensa filed an appeal regarding these proceed-
issued 18 judgments, two of which led to the dismissal of ings. On November 25, 2022, the proceedings were dis-
the proceedings, whereas the others issued penalties with missed due to lack of evidence sufficient for demonstrat-
an overall value of 96,000 euros. ing the asserted violations of the local privacy regulation.
Data breach
Regarding data breaches, during 2022, seven violations of the premises of a company suppliers. The analysis carried
personal data were recorded within the scope of the Enel out by e-distribuzione did not find any abnormal use of the
Group. involved personal data.
In particular, in Italy, two violations of personal data were In Spain, the company Endesa Energía SA notified the local
notified to the Data Protection Authority. As regards Enel Authority of a data violation consisting in the publication
Energia, the latter notified the Authority of a violation that of some advertisements in Facebook for the sale of the ac-
occurred in April 2022, concerning the personal data of cess credentials assigned to various suppliers for access-
some customers caused by a hacker attack against the IT ing some company applications, which resulted in fraud-
systems of a supplier of Enel Energia. The company provid- ulent contracts without the consent of the data subjects.
ed the data subjects with the necessary information. The In Colombia, the local control Authority was notified of four
analysis carried out by Enel Energia showed that there was data breaches, three of which involving the unauthorized
no abnormal use of the personal data and that the supplier dissemination of personal data and one a ransomware at-
then reinforced their safety measures. As regards e-dis- tack (RansomHouse type) which affected the websites and
tribuzione, the latter reported a data breach caused by the activities of a supplier.
theft of IT equipment by unknown persons who entered
Tax transparency
3-3 207-1 207-2 207-3 207-4
Tax strategy
Since 2017, the Enel Group has had a tax strategy under- adopt the tax strategy approved by the Parent Company,
stood as a set of principles and guidelines inspired by the thereby assuming the responsibility for ensuring its ac-
values of transparency and legality and published online knowledgement and application.
at www.enel.com. The Group’s subsidiaries are required to
Tax strategy objectives
The Board of Directors of Enel SpA (BoD) defines the tax es due under the law and implementation of the respec-
strategy of the entire Group in order to ensure equitable, tive obligations;
•
accountable and transparent tax contribution with the aim correct management of the tax risk, understood as the
of ensuring uniform management of taxation for all con- risk of violating of tax rules or abusing the principles and
cerned entities, which is inspired by the following logic: purposes of the tax system.
•
correct and timely determination and settlement of tax-
Tax strategy principles
The tax strategy principles are the guidelines for Group Tone at the top: the Board of Directors has the role and
companies, underpinning their business operations when responsibility of guiding the promotion of a corporate cul-
managing the fiscal variable. The principles also require ture that is based on the values of honesty, integrity and
suitable processes to be adopted to ensure their effective- the principle of legality.
ness and application. Transparency: the Group is transparent to all stakeholders
and actively collaborates with the tax authorities, enabling
Values: in line with its own sustainability strategy, the the latter, inter alia, to gain a full understanding of the facts
Group manages its tax assets in compliance with the val- underlying the application of tax rules.
ues of honesty and integrity and is aware that the revenues Stakeholder value: the Group implements a sustainable
deriving from levies represent one of the main sources of business model, aimed at creating and distributing value
contribution toward economic and social development of to all stakeholders over the long term. Tax contribution
the communities in the countries in which it operates. is one of the key components of the value distributed to
Legality: the Group pursues behavior oriented toward ob- communities and is managed in compliance with the prin-
servance of the applicable tax provisions and is committed ciple of legality and through active cooperation with the
to interpreting them in order to respect not only their form tax authorities in accordance with the principle of trans-
but also their substance. parency.
Governance
Enel SpA ensures that the tax strategy is acknowledged through the Tax unit, which also manages its periodic up-
and applied within the Company through the governance dates.
bodies. Its interpretation is left to the Parent Company,
Compliance
Group entities must respect the principle of legality, by ity and which may be reasonably assumed to offer undue
swiftly applying the tax laws of the countries where the tax advantages. This is because they are contrary to the
Group operates, to ensure that the wording, spirit and pur- purpose or spirit of the relevant tax provisions or system
pose of the applicable tax rule or system are respected. In and generate phenomena of double deduction, deduc-
addition, the Enel Group does not engage in behaviors and tion/non-inclusion or double non-taxation, including as a
operations, domestic or cross-border, that result in purely result of asymmetries between the tax systems of the dif-
artificial constructions that do not respect economic real- ferent jurisdictions.
Intercompany transactions
Intercompany relations are structured at market prices losses to permanent organizations, and the application of
and conditions, ensuring value creation in the locations rules regarding cross-border flows between Group enti-
where the Group conducts its business. For all intercom- ties.
pany transactions relevant to transfer pricing regulations, With specific regard to intercompany financial transac-
the Enel Group has adopted a policy that is in line with the tions, the Enel Group has organizationally adopted a cen-
arm’s length principle, an international standard estab- tralized finance model for its subsidiaries, which requires
lished by the Model Tax Convention and referred to in the that the Group’s two financial companies, Enel Finance In-
OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines for Multinational Enter- ternational (EFI) and Enel Finance America (EFA), centralize
prises and Tax Administrations (hereinafter also referred to part of the treasury and financial market access activities
as the “OECD Guidelines”). and act as the primary point of reference for the manage-
To this end, the Group has put internal policies in place ment of financial or liquidity needs generated by the oper-
to support the methods set out in the OECD Guidelines, ating entities.
which provide for the application of the Comparable Un- Finally, when analyzing the size of intercompany transac-
controlled Price – CUP method (which compares the price tions, it can be seen that these account for a minimal per-
of goods and/or services transferred in a transaction con- centage (generally around 7%(1)) of the Group’s total aggre-
cluded between associated companies with the price ap- gate revenues,(2) due to the fact that the energy business
plied in transactions between independent third parties). is conducted almost entirely within the boundaries of the
In addition, consistent with the applicable regulations, the individual country, from the power generation process to
signing of Advance Pricing Agreements (APAs) with local market sales. In 2022, intercompany transactions as a per-
tax authorities is promoted. These concern the definition centage of the Group’s total aggregate revenue amounted
of transfer pricing methods, the allocation of profits and to approximately 4%.
Intercompany transactions 2022 Average intercompany transactions (2019-2021)
96% 93%
4%
7%
Intercompany revenues Group’s total revenues Intercompany revenues Group’s total revenues
(1) The average value shown is higher than the average value for previous years due to the results for the 2021 tax year, which, with the same number of inter-
company transactions, saw an exponential growth in commodities and associated hedging transactions, with impacts on revenues, which led to an increase
in this percentage to 9% in the reporting year.
(2) The calculation was carried out by comparing the revenues of cross-border intercompany transactions on the basis of the total revenues reported in the
OECD CbCRs (Country-by-Country Reports) for the respective tax periods (i.e., 125,029 million euros in 2019; 108,165 million euros in 2020; 156,619 million
euros in 2021, and 267,912 million euros in 2022).
Low-tax jurisdictions
The Group does not make investments in or through coun- In cases where, in circumscribed situations (for example, in
tries considered to be tax havens for the sole purpose of the case of the purchase of companies from third parties),
reducing its tax burden. Such investments may only be the presence of structures created for the sole purpose of
proposed if they are supported by sound economic and reducing the tax burden or located in territories qualified
strategic reasons and have the aim of developing the ac- as tax havens is found, the Group is committed to the elim-
tivities included in the Group’s corporate purpose. ination of such structures at the earliest practicable time.
Tax incentives
Tax incentives are a key, development-oriented mecha- The Enel Group only uses widely applicable tax incen-
nism for economic policy, which countries use to stimu- tives for all operators and respects all specific regulations,
late growth and attract investment to support the national where the incentives are in line with its industrial and op-
policy. erational objectives and are consistent with the economic
The use of tax incentives generally determines a reduction substance of its investments.
in long-term tax payables (tax reduction) or else only the
temporary deferral of the tax payment.
Tax governance, control and risk
management
3-3 207-2
Governance body
Enel’s organization model provides: i) for a constant flow of the various optimization initiatives, monitoring the most
information to the Board of Directors by the Tax unit (“Tone significant tax issues, and providing support to the various
at the top”) with regard to the tax risk management and Business Lines; iii) that in addition to the Holding Function,
control system and the Tax Transparency Report, in which the Tax Affairs units in the different countries, acting in ac-
all relevant tax aspects of the Group are set out; ii) that cordance with the values and principles set out in the tax
the Holding’s Tax Affairs unit has the task, among others, strategy, are in charge of compliance management and tax
of implementing the Group’s tax strategy defined by the planning and monitoring activities at the local level.
Board of Directors, identifying, analyzing and managing
Organization
Enel has adopted a set of rules, procedures and standards These documents are published on the Company intranet
which are part of the Group’s wider organization and con- and are accessible to all Enel people. They form the gen-
trol system and which are considered key points of refer- eral rules of conduct applicable within the Group when
ence that all parties, depending on their type of relation- carrying out activities. Specifically in relation to taxation,
ship with the Group, are required to observe.(3) The vari- in addition to the tax strategy there are specific organiza-
ous corporate policies and procedures applicable both at tional documents in force – both at global and local level
Group level and country level govern the activities, as well – regarding the processes of tax compliance, tax planning,
as their management procedures and Tax Affairs responsi- tax monitoring, transfer pricing and tax risk management.
bilities, including in relation to other corporate Functions. The general principle is that the Tax units must be of the
(3) For example: Code of Ethics; Zero Tolerance of Corruption Plan; Enel Global Compliance Program (EGCP), corporate policies, models and procedures; the
tax strategy; the Internal Control and Risk Management System; the proxy system; the sanctions system referred to in the applicable CCNL; any other doc-
umentation relating to the current control systems; the relevant accounting standards; procedures and IT applications.
appropriate size and equipped with the necessary skills cific and ongoing training initiatives on tax issues at both
to perform the role of a decision-making analysis center country and global level have been set up, with recurring
within the governance and business processes, in addition meetings between all of the Group’s Tax Managers in order
to the role of compliance oversight. For this purpose, spe- to ensure appropriate alignment.
Tax risks
The Group has a Tax Control Framework (TCF) the main aim In particular, as the set of detectors and control measures
of which is to provide the Tax units with a single and con- identify sources of risk, the TCF can perform a broad spec-
sistent set of guidelines for adopting a correct and effec- trum of control. As such, any materialization of the tax risk
tive approach to tax risk management within the Group. can be intercepted and managed by each Tax unit in ques-
The framework sets out guidelines and methodological tion. The effectiveness and ongoing updates of the TCF
rules so as to assess, monitor and manage the relevant tax are ensured through periodic monitoring of the risk map,
risk for the companies consistently, in accordance with the regular internal audit processes, as well as through the tax
principles and guidelines set out by the tax strategy and authority systems set out under cooperative compliance
Tax Risk Policy, and in the knowledge that the Group com- schemes (where implemented).
panies operating in different jurisdictions must adopt the The results from the monitoring of tax risks are periodically
TCF with respect for the specific corporate context and brought to the attention of the competent Functions and
domestic regulations of each country in question. corporate bodies, including to establish the most appro-
In this regard, Enel has adopted a Tax Risk Policy the main priate way to mitigate such risks.
objective of which is to provide unambiguous and consis- Where applicable, the tax control system is subject to ex-
tent guidance to the Tax units when adopting the TCF at ternal certification, as in the case of Spain. In this regard,
the local level. the subsidiary Endesa obtained certification by AENOR(4)
In accordance with the established principles and guide- for its Tax Compliance Management System in accordance
lines, the Enel Group aims to manage the tax risk proac- with the requirements of the UNE 19602 standard. This tax
tively and believes that adopting a TCF can ensure the compliance certification represents one of the highest
timely detection, correct measurement and control of the standards by which Spanish companies can demonstrate
tax risk. that they prevent and mitigate tax risks by fully meeting
The task of the TCF is to identify the sources of tax risk the requirements of UNE 19602.(5)
for the purpose of compliance and interpreting tax reg- Finally, with regard to the outcome of this risk control ac-
ulations, while mapping out the respective processes and tivity and to potentially uncertain tax positions, please refer
activities in order to form a network of risk detectors, to be to the relative indications and comments in the Integrated
associated with the resulting control measures. Annual Report.
Participation in cooperative compliance schemes
For companies that meet the legal requirements for par- (Código de Buenas Prácticas Tributarias(7)) scheme in Spain
ticipation, the Enel Group promotes participation in coop- and is collaborating with the federal tax authority in a pilot
erative compliance schemes where they exist in the vari- project for the creation of a local Cooperative Tax Com-
ous countries in which it operates. pliance model (Projeto CONFIA – Conformidade Cooper-
In particular, Enel participates in the Collaborative Fulfilment ativa Fiscal) in Brazil.(8) In addition to the above-mentioned
(Adempimento Collaborativo) scheme in Italy,(6) for larger countries, various activities are under way for potential
companies, in the equivalent Code of Good Tax Practices accession to additional cooperative compliance schemes.
(4) AENOR (Asociación Española de Normalización y Certificación) is a leading body in the certification of management systems, products and services and is
responsible for the development and dissemination of UNE standards.
(5) UNE standard 19602, published in February 2019, sets out requirements and guidelines for companies to voluntarily adopt a system that reinforces tax com-
pliance best practices. The standard requires companies to identify and assess potential tax risks and to minimize them by establishing financial controls
and due diligence processes for the organization’s exposed personnel and suppliers, as well as a channel for complaints and consultations.
(6) https://www.agenziaentrate.gov.it/portale/web/guest/schede/agevolazioni/regime-di-adempimento-collaborativo/elenco-societa-ammesse-al-regime.
(7) https://sede.agenciatributaria.gob.es/Sede/colaborar-agencia-tributaria/relacion-cooperativa/foro-grandes-empresas/codigo-buenas-practicas-tribu-
tarias/adhesiones-codigo-buenas-practicas-tributarias.html.
(8) https://www.gov.br/receitafederal/pt-br/acesso-a-informacao/acoes-e-programas/confia.
In order to monitor the progress of this activity, an index based on their size and mem- Cooperative
(the Cooperative Compliance Index – CCI) was developed bership requirements.(9) Compliance Index:
to measure the participation of Enel Group companies
95.7
in cooperative compliance regimes in various countries
%
Mechanism for stakeholder reports
For the Enel Group, tax compliance is considered a key as- ical management” which Enel operates, tying in fully with
pect of the Company’s ethical and accountable manage- the tax strategy. Provisions for violations of the Code of
ment. As such, breaches that can be reported through the Ethics are appropriate to ensure the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal channels also include those relating to requirements contained therein and should be understood
tax. The Group’s Code of Ethics is the framework of “eth- to extend to the provisions of the tax strategy.
Transparent relations with stakeholders
3-3 207-3
The constant commitment of the Enel Group to transpar- Finally, the Enel Group ensures transparency and integri-
ency with respect to the tax authorities and all stakehold- ty in its relations with the tax authorities in the event of
ers concretely underlines the importance it attributes to audits on both the Group companies and third parties. To
the tax variable and its role in the sustainable development consolidate this transparency with tax authorities, the Enel
of the Company. Group promotes engagement in cooperative compliance
Therefore, the Group is committed to providing a trans- schemes for companies that integrate the requirements
parent explanation of the tax issues that can be of interest of their respective domestic regulations in order to rein-
to third parties, also on its website, making the latter an force their relations. It also complies with the transfer pric-
information hub that is easily accessible and understand- ing documentation provisions in accordance with OECD
able to all. Guidelines, taking the “three-tiered approach”, divided
This commitment also extends to the Group’s other listed into Master File, Local File and Country-by-Country Report.
companies. For example, Endesa has once again topped Moreover, to avoid double taxation, the Group promotes
the best practice ranking for transparency and tax respon- Mutual Agreement Procedures (MAP) for the settlement
sibility according to the Contribution and Transparency of international disputes, which include the direct involve-
Report 2021 published by the Haz Foundation. Endesa has ment of tax authorities from the contracting countries.
been ranked top among the IBEX 35 companies for its best Commitment to transparency is also reflected with regard
practices in terms of tax risk management and control. to customs. In this regard, some of the most active com-
Endesa also obtained the t*** transparency seal awarded panies in dealing with customs authorities (Enel Global
by the Haz Foundation, which certifies compliance with Trading SpA and Enel Produzione SpA) obtained the sta-
twelve indicators analyzing various good practices in the tus of Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) respectively in
area of fiscal responsibility. These awards demonstrate 2016 and 2015. Those qualified as an AEO are deemed to
Endesa’s solid commitment to tax transparency and re- be trustworthy entities due to them having demonstrated
sponsibility in terms of economic and social contribution an adequate level of compliance of their processes. Said
in the jurisdictions in which it operates. qualification requires compliance with certain criteria, in-
cluding “customs and tax compliance”, to be demonstrat-
Additionally, all stakeholders can send in their remarks, ques- ed and maintained through an appropriate level of control
tions and opinions using the contact information channels and training.
provided by Enel and found on the website: (https://www.
enel.com/media/explore and https://www.enel.com/inves-
tors/overview).
(9) The index compares the revenues of companies that have joined the existing cooperative compliance schemes to those of all Enel companies legally eligible
to join. The index does not consider countries in which the schemes have not been legally established, or companies that do not meet qualifications to join
(i.e., because their size is below statutory thresholds), even though the schemes exist in their countries. Nevertheless, the Group’s overall coverage was more
than 77% in terms of cooperative compliance companies’ revenues compared to the Group’s revenues.
Tax advocacy
Enel consistently acts with a transparent and collaborative ing an index to assess the performance of companies from
approach with all national and international institutions and all sectors in terms of fiscal transparency and responsible
trade associations to support the development of effective fiscal behavior.
tax systems in the various countries where it operates.
In particular, Enel supports fair, effective and stable tax In 2019, Enel joined the European Business Tax Forum
systems in order to reduce uncertainty for both govern- (EBTF), an association that aims to facilitate a public de-
ments and companies. Enel believes that a transparent bate on taxation by providing a balanced and comprehen-
and coordinated approach between countries is essential sive perspective of the taxes paid by companies. In view of
to improve the international tax system and it supports a this objective, tax information and data are provided to the
consensual approach to regulatory choices. To this end, it various stakeholders concerned. On its website (https://
contributes by supporting governments and international ebtforum.org), the Forum continuously publishes various
organizations through active participation in public con- studies on tax transparency: Total Tax Contribution,(15) Best
sultation phases on new regulatory processes, where they Practices for Good Tax Governance(16) and Tax Transparen-
exist, either directly or through participation in various na- cy and Country-by-Country Reporting.(17)
tional and international associations. Furthermore, in 2021 Enel adhered to the B Team Respon-
sible Tax Principles, that is, the principles developed by the
Regularly sharing knowledge and best practices through B Team(18) for promoting responsible and sustainable tax
participation in national and international associations practices for a better future. B Team is an organization cre-
is essential in order to contribute to the development of ated by a group of multinationals, with the contribution of
new regulatory procedures by providing qualified techni- civil society, investors and representatives of international
cal support on complex business matters. In this respect, institutions, in order to promote responsible and sustain-
the most representative organizations in which Enel has able tax practices.
been involved for years to support the evolving tax legis-
lation are: Assonime,(10) EuropeanIssuers,(11) Confindustria(12) Through its active and public participation in all these as-
and Foro de Grandes Empresas.(13) It also participates in a sociations, Enel believes it can make its own technical con-
CSR Europe project(14) for a collaborative platform on tax tribution by sharing its experience in support of fair, effec-
responsibility and transparency, with the aim of develop- tive and sustainable taxation.
(10) https://www.assonime.it/Pagine/Home.aspx.
(11) https://www.europeanissuers.eu/.
(12) https://www.confindustria.it/home.
(13) https://sede.agenciatributaria.gob.es/Sede/colaborar-agencia-tributaria/relacion-cooperativa/foro-grandes-empresas.html.
(14) https://www.csreurope.org/newsbundle-articles/csr-europe-launches-new-collaborative-platform-on-tax-responsibility-and-transparency.
(15) Several studies have been published relating to the EU/EFTA Total Tax Contribution, which report the yearly aggregate data for the various types of taxes
paid by the largest European multinational companies by turnover and/or by stock market capitalization, including in 2021 a dedicated section for Coun-
try-by-Country Reporting.
(16) The paper was drafted by a group of tax directors from three organizations (Tax Executives Council of the Conference Board, The B Team and the European
Business Tax Forum) to provide guidance on the best practices that multinationals can adopt in order to develop transparency and assurance vis-a-vis their
stakeholders.
(17) First study dedicated exclusively to Country-by-Country Reporting data.
(18) https://bteam.org/.
Reporting
3-3 207-4
Acting with honesty and integrity is one of the main cor- As of 2019 (FY 2018-2017), we have adopted a Total Tax
nerstones of Enel tax strategy, as is our commitment to Contribution model for the main countries where we op-
transparency. erate, providing evidence of taxes paid and of withholding
The publication of Country-by-Country Reporting (Cb- tax deductions.
CR)(19) supplemented with details of our overall tax contri- Beginning in 2021 (FY 2020), on the other hand, we adopt-
bution in the main economies in which the Group oper- ed an integrated model: the Tax Transparency Report. This
ates (hereafter also “Tax Transparency Report”), underlines is prepared consistently with the rules provided for under
the importance that the Group attributes to tax related is- OECD Country-by-Country Reporting(20) and includes in-
sues, to their social role and, in general, to transparency as formation and data for Total Tax Contributions in the main
a factor that facilitates sustainable development. countries where we are present.
The approach followed also aims to eliminate potential The integrated model of the Tax Transparency Report is
ambiguities that may derive from complex accounting and available on our site (https://www.enel.com). The Group be-
tax treatments, while supporting and, at the same time, im- lieves that this model ensures a broad vision and a detailed
proving other annual financial information and continuing measurement of the organization’s contributions to eco-
along a pathway targeted at supplying an increasingly in- nomic and social development in the regions/countries in
depth and clear vision of our tax position. which it operates.
Tax Transparency Report - principles
The Tax Transparency Report adopts the cash basis ac- income of companies at State or local level, taxes on pro-
counting criterion as a general principle for representing duction, solidarity contributions, tax levied on income
tax data, considering it to be the most adequate for dis- deriving from specific activities such as the extraction of
closing the actual tax contribution. More specifically, the natural resources, the generation and sale of hydroelectric
total tax data, as defined and detailed in what follows, is energy as well as taxes withheld at source) and collected,
determined through the various taxes paid(21) by all the in the case where they are applied to a third party or to a
entities in the scope of each tax jurisdiction in the year physical person (for example, withholding taxes on interest
subject to reporting, regardless of the tax year to which income, royalties, subcontractors and suppliers). Income
the taxes refer. As anticipated previously, on applying an taxes do not include taxes on dividends paid by Enel Group
approach adopted by the OECD,(22) the Tax Transparency entities.
Report classifies the different taxes into categories and People – Taxes on labor: this category generally includes
distinguishes them between those that constitute an ex- taxes on labor, comprising those on incomes and social
pense for the Company (taxes borne) and those that the welfare contributions. Taxes applied to the employer are
Company pays due to rebate mechanisms, substitution considered taxes borne (e.g., social welfare contributions,
etc. (taxes collected) but that, at any rate, are the result of health insurance, pensions, disability contributions), while
the Company’s own economic activities. income taxes applied to workers are considered as taxes
Specifically, taxes, both borne and collected, are classified collected (e.g., taxes on incomes of physical persons or so-
into the following five macro-categories. cial welfare contributions debited to workers that are nor-
Profit – Income taxes: this category includes taxes on mally withheld by the employer).
company income that can be both borne (e.g. tax on the Products – Taxes on products and services: indirect tax-
(19) See the circular Assonime (Association of Italian Joint Stock Companies) no. 1/2021. “Gli obblighi di trasparenza in materia di tassazione nelle dichiarazioni
non finanziarie secondo lo standard GRI 207” (Transparency obligations in the matter of taxation in Non-Financial Disclosures according to standard GRI
207), in which it is clarified that it is possible to make reference to Country-by-Country reports sent to the Agenzie delle Entrate (Italian Revenue Agency)
made public voluntarily, even if they are related to the preceding tax period with respect to the time period considered in the Non-Financial Disclosure.
In this regard, the Group has decided to report the information for the current year, prepared consistently with the rules provided for under OECD Coun-
try-by-Country Reporting, actually anticipating by a year the activities required for tax reporting.
(20) Beginning 2018, the Enel Group presented the Country-by-Country Reports for the years 2016-2021. This was by way of transmission thereof to the Italian
Agenzia delle Entrate which in turn supplied them to the other States with which an agreement is in force for the exchange of information, in compliance
with the indications of Action 13 of the BEPS project, as amended. Action 13 is a project in which the OECD and the countries of the G20 have participated
in order to reply in a coordinated and shared manner to the strategies of aggressive tax planning put in place by MNEs with a view to “artificially shifting”
profits in jurisdictions characterized as tax havens.
(21) The data for taxes paid includes payments on account, taxes for previous years, including after assessments, net of repayments and rebates obtained.
Interest and penalties are not considered.
(22) Working Paper no. 32, “Legal tax liability remittance responsibility and tax incidence”.
es applied on production, sale or use of goods and ser- Subsequently, these data are aggregated by tax jurisdic-
vices, trade and international transactions. This category tion. To take account of intercompany relations, the data
includes taxes that can be paid by businesses with ref- are represented according to logic of aggregation by tax
erence to their own consumption of goods and services, jurisdiction (that is, the country in which the entities are
regardless of the fact that they are paid to the supplier of resident for tax purposes and where they enjoy fiscal au-
the goods and services rather than directly to the govern- tonomy) and not according to a logic of consolidation.
ment. This category includes both taxes borne (e.g., tax- Entities within the scope: falling within the scope of the
es on consumption, turnover taxes, excise duties,(23) cus- report are all those companies consolidated using the full
toms duties, import duties, taxes on insurance contracts, consolidation method or the proportional method (hereaf-
non-deductible VAT) as well as taxes collected (e.g., VAT ter also “entity within the scope”) on the basis of account-
paid, excise duties,(24) taxes on goods and services). ing principles used for the drafting of the Consolidated
Property – Property taxes: taxes on property, the use or Financial Statements on the part of the Ultimate Parent
transfer of property, plant and equipment or intangible as- Entity (Enel SpA).(26) With reference to the list of companies
sets. This category includes both taxes borne (e.g. taxes on in the Group and their activities, please refer to the spe-
property and the use of real estate, capital tax applied on cific prospectus in the Integrated Annual Report 2022.(27)
the increase of risk capital, taxes on the transfer, purchase Currency: the report considers the euro as the currency of
or sale of assets, net equity and capital transactions, stamp reference in that it is the one used by the Parent Company.
duty, stamp duty for the transfer of real estate, stamp duty Since IFRS-EU accounting data are extracted in local cur-
for the transfer of shares, taxes on financial transactions rencies, economic data (such as revenues, earnings before
that imply loans or borrowings from a foreign source), and taxes, taxes accrued and taxes paid) have been converted
taxes collected (e.g. taxes on leases collected by the lessor into the euro at the average exchange rate of the currency,
and paid to the government). while balance sheet data (property, plant and equipment)
Planet – Environmental taxes:(25) these include taxes and have been converted into the euro at the exchange rate in
duties on energy products (including fuel for vehicles), on force at year’s end.
motor vehicles and transport services, and on the supply, Third party revenues: the sum of third party revenues ac-
use or consumption of goods and services considered counted for by the entities within the scope in the pertinent
harmful to the environment, as well as the management of tax jurisdiction in the reporting year. The term “revenues” is
waste, noise, water, land, soil, forests, biodiversity, wild an- understood in the broadest possible sense(28) to include all
imals and fish stocks to be paid by the entity. Examples of revenues, comprising those from extraordinary operations.
taxes borne: taxes on the value of the generation of elec- Cross-border inter-company revenues: the sum of reve-
tricity, taxes on the production of nuclear fuels and carbon nues from transactions carried out between entities within
tax. Examples of taxes collected: taxes on electricity, taxes the scope resident in different jurisdictions in the tax re-
on hydrocarbons and duties on gas and electricity. porting year, including income from extraordinary opera-
Furthermore, the financial-equity data represented follow tions and excluding dividends.(29)
the accounting requirements below. Profit (Loss) before income taxes: the sum of profits (loss-
Data source: the data represented in the report are ex- es) before income taxes generated in the year of reference
pressed on the basis of IFRS-EU accounting principles and involving all entities within the scope in each tax ju-
adopted by the Group and are at stand-alone entity level. risdiction. The Profits (Losses) before income taxes must
(23) With the exception of those recorded under environmental taxes (e.g. duties on gas and electric energy).
(24) With the exception of those recorded under environmental taxes (e.g. duties on gas and electric energy).
(25) The classification of taxes as environmental is based on the shared definition within the harmonized statistic framework developed jointly, in 1997, by
Eurostat, the European Commission, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), and the International Energy Agency (IEA),
according to which environmental taxes “are taxes whose tax base is a physical quantity (or the proxy of a physical quantity) of an element that has a proven
and specific negative impact on the environment (https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php,title=Glossary:Environmental_tax). All taxes
on energy, transport, pollution and resources are included, whereas all taxes on added value are excluded. For further details, see Eurostat: “Environmental
taxes – a statistical guideline”, para. 2.3 and 2.6 (https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/documents/3859598/5936129/KS-GQ-13-005-EN.PDF) e OECD: Special
feature: Identifying environmentally-related tax revenues in Revenue Statistics (https://www.oecd-ilibrary.org////sites/52465399-en/index.html,itemId=/con-
tent/component/52465399-en#).
(26) However, the companies consolidated using the equity method are excluded. Furthermore, the data of Permanent Establishments are reported in the juris-
diction of their operations and not in the jurisdiction of residence of associated companies. Therefore, the data of the latter do not include the data of the
Permanent Establishment. Finally, all stateless companies of the Enel Group are flow-through entities incorporated in the same country in which income is
imputed and is effectively taxed in the partner company (e.g., the United States).
(27) See circular Assonime no. 1/2021. Gli obblighi di trasparenza in materia di tassazione nelle dichiarazioni non finanziarie secondo lo standard GRI 207 (Trans-
parency obligations in the matter of taxation in Non-Financial Disclosures according to standard GRI 207), where it is clarified that it is possible to make
reference to other sources (known as “incorporation by reference”) such as the Directors’ Report in the Consolidated Financial Statements or in the annexes
for the list of Group companies and their main activities, and the Directors’ Report or other sections of the NFD with regard to information already contained
therein on uncertain tax positions and on any other information relevant for the purposes of GRI 207.
(28) Specifically, also included are (i) other income, (ii) all extraordinary income (e.g., capital gains from the sale of real estate, unrealized capital gains/capital
losses and (iii) financial income (with the exception of dividends from other companies within the scope) or any extraordinary item. Revenues from income
taxes (deriving from deferred tax liabilities or from tax consolidation) are excluded.
(29) Revenues do not include payments received from other entities within the scope that are considered dividends in the tax jurisdiction of the payer.
costs.(30) Number of employees and remuneration: the number of
Income taxes accrued for companies (current taxes): the employees at the end of the period considering all the en-
sum of current taxes (i.e., for the year in progress) on tax- tities within the scope; conversely, as regards their remu-
able income in the reporting year of all entities within the neration, please see the Sustainability Report as well as the
scope in each tax jurisdiction, regardless of whether or not Tax Transparency Report.
they have been paid. The data for these does not take ac- Capital:(32) the accounting value of share capital as taken
count of provisions for tax debts that are not yet certain from the financial statements of all the entities within the
as regards either their amount or existence, of adjustment scope.
of current taxes for previous years and of prepaid and de- Profit reserves: this item represents the amount of net
ferred taxes. profit realized by the entities within the scope in each tax
Tangible assets: the sum of net accountable values of tan- jurisdiction over the past years, net of dividends paid and
gible fixed assets resulting from the balance sheet, of all any other reduction due to losses, capital increases, etc.
entities within the scope in each tax jurisdiction.(31)
(30)Consistent with the reporting criteria applied to Revenues, Profits (Losses) before income taxes are indicated net of dividends paid by the companies within
the scope (as also indicated by the OECD in the report “Guidance on the Implementation of Country-by-Country Reporting” published in 2019 point II.7).
(31) Tangible fixed assets do not include cash and cash equivalents, intangible assets or financial assets.
(32)The introduction of the disclosure related to the “Capital” and “Undistributed profit” items in the Sustainability Report 2021 further enriches the Report
content in relation to OECD CbCR. Furthermore, the introduction of this information, in particular that related to “Undistributed profit” supplements the
disclosure with that required by the Directive 2013/34 (amended by Directive (EU) 2021/2101) on the topic of the publication of income tax information
(the so-called public CbCR). This additional information provides the disclosure with this content in advance of what is required under Article 48-(8) of the
above-mentioned Directive.
Tax Transparency Report – general analysis
Total Tax Contribution (€/mil) i. a significant increase in taxes on products and ser-
vices, mainly as a result of higher revenues due to the
15,000 13,979.9 increased quantities of electricity and gas (especially in
Italy and Spain) sold at growing average prices;
12,000 11,465.5 ii. an increase in environmental taxes, influenced by the
extraordinary repayments received in 2021 in Spain.
Net of this effect, environmental taxes have in fact de-
9,000 9,201.9
creased mainly due to the suspension/reduction of en-
7,383.4
ergy excise taxes adopted by the governments of some
6,000
countries to cope with high energy prices;
iii. an increase in taxes on profits due to both the intro-
3,000 duction of extraordinary levies on companies operating
4,778.0 4,082.1
in the energy production and distribution sectors and
- the effects of mechanisms for payment on account and
FY 2022 FY 2021 balance of income taxes;(35) and
iv. an increase in property and labor taxes, consistent with
Total Tax Borne Total Tax Collected Total Tax Contribution
the dynamics of the business, in which there are in-
creasing levels of investment and staff remuneration.(36)
In general, the value of taxes paid highlights once again
In 2022, the Total Tax Contribution(33) (TTC), with respect the importance of the Group’s tax contribution to the
to all the countries in which we operate, was 13,979.9 mil- communities and the economic and social systems of the
lion euros. countries in which it operates, something which has be-
2022 showed an increase in the total tax contribution of come even more relevant as we face the challenges of the
2,514.4 million euros (+21.9%) compared to 2021.(34) post-pandemic period.
This trend is the result of an increase in both tax borne and An analysis of the tax contribution from a geographical
tax collected and reflects the economic conditions of the perspective shows that the distribution of taxes paid is
market in question characterized by a significant increase consistent with that of the revenues generated and the
in raw material procurement costs and a sharp rise in elec- number of staff employed: Italy, Spain and Brazil together
tricity and gas prices. account for 85% of the tax contribution, around 84% of
In this context, on an overall level, both revenue-related revenues and around 75% of employees.
indirect taxes and, albeit more moderately, profit-, labor-
and property-related taxes grew significantly. More specif- The distribution of the total contribution in the various
ically, an analysis of the total tax contribution data broken countries in which the Group operates is shown in the ta-
down into the five tax categories shows: ble below.
(33)The total tax contribution has been calculated considering the main countries in which the Group is present. These represent more than 99% of revenues
and more than 99% of income taxes paid. For all the other countries, the income taxes have nonetheless been indicated in detail. The following countries
are included: Italy, Spain, Brazil, Colombia, Portugal, Peru, Argentina, Romania, Chile, France, the United States, Canada, Germany, the Netherlands, Panama,
Mexico, Greece, Guatemala, India, South Africa and Costa Rica.
(34)It should be noted that refinements and changes to the scope of consideration have been introduced for the purpose of preparing this section of the doc-
ument. The 2021 figures presented in this document may not coincide with that represented in the Enel Group’s “Sustainability Report 2021”.
(35)In the majority of countries where Enel operates, Income Taxes are paid for the reporting year based on the historical values of the previous year (so-called
“historical method”). Therefore, the financial effects of the overall value of income taxes for the reporting year are fully recognized only the following year.
(36)Net of the effect related to Russia, whose activities are effectively divested.
Total Tax Contribution per country Total Tax Borne (cash accounting)
(€/mil) Total Tax Collected (cash accounting)
Total Tax Contribution (cash accounting)
Italy Spain
4,229.2 1,687.6
5,929.1 3,018.4
1,699.9 1,330.8
Brazil Colombia Port ugal Peru
2,071.8 70.1 257.8 96.2
2,884.5 471.0 265.0 232.6
812.6 400.9 7.2 136.4
Argentina Romania Chile France
166.8 173.7 61.3 145.8
220.4 202.7 192.8 154.2
53.6 29.0 131.5 8.4
USA&Canada Germany Netherlands Panama
60.9 113.9 22.2 5.5
138.8 114.1 45.6 37.6
78.0 0.3 23.4 32.1
Mexico Greece Guatemala India
17.3 3.5 5.6 5.4
23.7 21.7 12.0 6.9
6.4 18.3 6.3 1.4
South Africa Costa Rica
4.2 2.9
4.4 4.3
0.1 1.4
Tax Borne (€/mil)
Profi t taxes Propert y taxes Employment taxes Taxes on products and services Environmental taxes
2022
355.7 1,012.7
4,778.0
1,927.6 808.8 673.3
2021
307.5 694.2
4,082.1
1,775.3 771.4 533.8
2022 ≠ 2021
48.3 318.5
695.9
152.3 37.4 139.5
In 2022, the Total Taxes Borne(37) amounted to 4,778.0 and on the other hand, payments relating to the “Im-
million euros,(38) an overall increase of 695.9 million euros puesto sobre el valor de la producción eléctrica” (tax on
(+17.0%) compared to 2021. electricity production) decreased (-204.2 million euros),
This increase affected all tax borne categories and espe- due to the suspension of this tax for the entire year;
cially taxes on products and services, environmental taxes ii. Italy (+41.2 million euros) as a result of paying the coal
and taxes on profits. excise duty adjustments for 2021, due to higher con-
The payment of taxes on products and services increased sumption in 2021 compared to 2020;
by 318.5 million euros, due to higher payments in (i) Bra- iii. Chile (+16.0 million euros) due to the increase in elec-
zil (+185.6 million euros), mainly as a result of an increase tricity production.
in social taxes PIS (“Programa de Integração Social”) and The payment of income taxes has increased overall by 152.3
COFINS (“Contribuição para Financiamento de Seguridade million euros. The largest increases were recorded in:
Social”(39)) following new clarifications provided by the com- i. Italy (+167.3 million euros) due to the introduction of ex-
petent authorities for the application of these taxes, and traordinary contributions charged to companies oper-
Spain (+114.1 million euros) where revenues increased as a ating in the energy production and distribution sectors
result of rising electricity prices. and higher advance payments made in 2022 compared
The payment of environmental taxes increased overall by to 2021 as a result of the method used to calculate
139.5 million euros. The largest increases were recorded in: the same(41) and the inclusion of a new company in the
i. Spain (+80.7 million euros) where, on the one hand, tax- scope;(42)
es paid relating to the “canon hidráulico” (water tax) in- ii. Spain (+95.3 million euros) due to both lower deprecia-
creased compared to 2021 (+270.6 million euros), a year tion and amortization as a result of extending the tax life
in which extraordinary repayments(40) were received, of certain production facilities and the payment of taxes
(37) Taxes borne are taxes that constitute a cost for a company.
(38)Taxes borne include, among income taxes, specific corporate income taxes of 1,799.8 million euros paid in 2022 and 1,723.3 million euros paid in 2021.
(39)The exclusion of the ICMS (“Imposto sobre Circulação de Mercadorias e Serviços”) from the basis for calculating the PIS (“Programa de Integração Social”)
and COFINS (“Contribuição para Financiamento de Seguridade Social”) on which Brazil’s Federal Supreme Court (STF) ruled in 2021, was a controversial topic
in the country and the subject of much debate in that year. In 2022, Enel revised its methodology for calculating PIS/COFINS taxes in light of new clarification
provided by the competent authorities, which resulted in an increase in taxes paid.
(40)The repayment refers to the amounts paid during the period 2013-2020. Following a judgment of the Spanish Tribunal Supremo, the charge was repaid as
it was declared non-applicable.
(41) In the case in question, the payments on account (calculated using the historical method and partly using the forecast method) made in 2022 increased due
to an increase in taxable income between 2020 and 2021, as well as a higher expected income in 2022 than in 2021.
(42)Taxes on Enel Hydro Appennino Centrale, the company acquired in 2022, were paid in 2022.
related to previous years, made following a restatement able income in 2021,(44) which, based on the historical
of the tax base; and payment mechanism, affected the taxes paid in 2022.
iii. Colombia (+18.7 million euros) due to an increase in tax- The payment of property taxes increased overall by 48.3
able income of some companies related to an improve- million euros. The most significant increases were record-
ment in operating results. ed (i) in the United States of America (+22.5 million euros)
This was partially offset by a reduction in taxes on profits due to the commissioning of new renewable energy plants,
in: (ii) in Brazil (+18.5 million euros) as a result of certain finan-
iv. Brazil (-63.7 million euros) due to both a change in the cial transactions (discharge of foreign financial debts and
way some entities(43) pay taxes during the year and a re- capital contribution) subject to capital taxation, and (iii) in
duction in taxable income; Italy (+3.9 million euros) due to the updating of the “canone
v. Chile (-48.8 million euros) due to the reduction of tax- unico patrimoniale” (single property charge) introduced as
able income caused by exchange losses; of 2021.
vi. Holland (-26.5 million euros) due to a reduction in tax-
Tax Collected (€/mil)
Profi t taxes Propert y taxes Employment taxes Taxes on products and services Environmental taxes
2022
1.1 6,074.2
9,201.9
172.9 1,102.0 1,851.6
2021
1.2 4,274.3
7,383.4
169.2 1,913.7
1,025.1
2022 ≠ 2021
-0.1 1,800.0
1,818.4
3.6 -62
76.9
(43) Some Brazilian entities changed the frequency of income tax settlement from annual to quarterly during the year. Following this change, taxes for the last
quarter of 2022 were paid in January 2023, with a consequent reduction in payments by 2022.
(44) 2021 was characterized by a debt restructuring operation as a result of which securities issued in the past were repurchased early, and new sustainabili-
ty-linked bonds were issued, in line with the industrial objectives that the Enel Group has set for itself in terms of sustainability and decarbonization. The
restructuring operation generated around 560 million euros in extraordinary costs.
Total Taxes Collected amount to 9,201.9 million euros, up the first year of adoption of the so-called “VAT Group” –
1,818.4 million euros (+24.6%) as compared to 2021. This a measure that simplified a number of tax obligations(45)
increase is mainly attributable to higher taxes on products –no payments on account had been made;
and services. ii. Spain (+516.2 million euros), Portugal (+103.7 million eu-
Indeed, the taxes on products and services increased by ros), France (+61.4 million euros) and Germany (+49.9
1,800.0 million euros. The largest increases were record- million euros), due to higher revenues related to the in-
ed in: crease in prices and sales volumes as described above.
i. Italy (+1,000.0 million euros), where in 2021, as a result of
A representative global and concise index of the Group’s Another concise indicator of the tax contribution for
tax contribution from a cash perspective is: business income is represented by:
Current income
TTC Rate tax rate
64.7% 68.1%
The Total Tax Contribution (TTC Rate) At Group level, in FY 2022 the Current
index provides a concise and complete Income Tax Rate, determined as the
measurement of the burden for all taxes ratio of accrued corporate income
that the business has effectively paid taxes (3.0 billion euros) to profit before
and is calculated as a percentage of income taxes (4.41 billion euros), was
taxes borne in relation to Earnings Before 68.1%, higher than the average rate of
Taxes. In 2022, the TTC rate of 64.7% was the OECD Member States (23.1%).(46)
higher than the average for the last three
years (57.5%) mainly due to the increase
in taxes borne already mentioned.
In line with OECD best practice,(47) the following tables Group level were equal to 3.0 billion euros, whereas the in-
show the figure for corporate income taxes paid on a cash come taxes paid were equal to 1.8 billion euros.
basis and the figure for current taxes booked on an accru- The significant value of current taxes and the difference
al basis country by country. Current taxes represent taxes between current taxes and taxes paid relating to 2022 is
calculated on the basis of income produced in the year fol- mainly attributable to the higher cost of current taxes re-
lowing the tax rules of each country and normally deviate corded in Italy, related to the extraordinary contribution on
from taxes paid in the same year in so far as the definitive high utility bills and solidarity contributions (approximately
payment of the balance is made in the year following that totaling 721 million euros). The upward effect on taxes paid
in which they accrued. will be evident in 2023 due to tax payments based on his-
The trends of the two values are substantially destined to torical data.
realign over time. In 2022, the current income taxes on a
(45)https://www.agenziaentrate.gov.it/portale/web/guest/schede/istanze/costituzione-gruppo-iva/scheda-informativa-costituzione-gruppoiva. With this scheme,
a single and autonomous taxable entity is established with a single VAT Number valid for all member companies, replacing their individual VAT Numbers. This also
benefits the suppliers of the various companies (e.g., a single VAT Number of reference for the invoices to all Group Companies).
(46)Source OECD Stat, “Table II.1. Statutory corporate income tax rate – Combined corporate income tax rate”.
(47) For the purposes of Country-by-Country Reporting (BEPS Project – Action 13).
Tax Transparency Report - tables by geographical area
To ensure greater legibility and transparency, below are
given the data of the single countries.
Europe - main countries
UM France Germany Greece Italy
Taxes Borne 8.4 0.3 18.3 1,699.9
Profit taxes €/mil 6.6 -0.1 12.0 930.8
Income tax paid €/mil 6.3 -0.1 12.0 859.9
Property taxes €/mil 0.1 - 0.3 152.2
Employment Taxes €/mil 1.7 0.4 1.4 541.3
Taxes on products and services €/mil - - 4.6 2.2
Planet/Environmental Taxes €/mil - - 0.0 73.4
Taxes Collected 145.8 113.9 3.5 4,229.2
Profit taxes €/mil - - - 27.2
Property Taxes €/mil - - - -
Employment Taxes €/mil 1.2 0.7 2.0 643.2
Taxes on products and services €/mil 97.8 87.6 1.5 1,934.9
Planet/Environmental Taxes €/mil 46.9 25.5 - 1,624.0
Total Tax Contibution (cash accounting) €/mil 154.2 114.1 21.7 5,929.1
Economic data UM France Germany Greece Italy
Revenues Unrelated €/mil 1,161.3 484.4 111.7 103,258.9
Revenue related cross border €/mil 72.1 81.8 14.5 4,608.8
Profit (Loss) before income tax €/mil 35.1 42.6 38.7 810.7
Income tax accrued €/mil 5.1 3.8 6.1 1,339.8
Tangible assets other than cash and cash equivalents €/mil 4.4 0.3 595.7 31,700.4
Number of employees no. 63 23 130 31,643
Accumulated earnings €/mil -2.2 -46.2 -159.0 8,503.2
Corporation Stock €/mil 4.1 47.7 623.7 53,668.4
TTC Rate % 22.6% 0.7% 40.6% 103.0%
TTC in relation to revenues % 12.5% 20.2% 17.2% 5.5%
Taxes borne in relation to revenues % 0.7% 0.1% 14.5% 1.6%
Taxes collected in relation to revenues % 11.8% 20.1% 2.8% 3.9%
Netherlands Portugal Romania Spain 2022 2021 2022-2021 %
23.4 7.2 29.0 1,330.8 3,117.2 2,631.5 485.7 18%
22.8 6.3 19.9 257.4 1,255.7 1,013.3 242.4 24%
22.8 6.3 19.3 227.7 1,154.3 984.2 170.0 17%
- 0.0 3.8 99.2 255.5 250.8 4.8 2%
0.2 0.9 2.7 133.7 682.4 671.1 11.4 2%
0.5 - 2.4 308.9 318.5 213.3 105.2 49%
- - 0.1 531.6 605.0 483.1 121.9 25%
22.2 257.8 173.7 1,687.6 6,633.7 4,955.4 1,678.3 34%
- 0.0 - 75.5 102.7 103.4 -0.7 -1%
- 0.1 - 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.1 81%
1.0 1.7 39.4 242.0 931.1 885.9 45.2 5%
15.2 238.5 125.9 1,260.6 3,761.9 2,063.4 1,698.4 82%
6.0 17.6 8.4 109.3 1,837.8 1,902.5 -64.8 -3%
45.6 265.0 202.7 3,018.4 9,751.0 7,587.0 2,164.0 29%
Netherlands Portugal Romania Spain 2022 2021 2022-2021 %
2,744.1 1,582.7 3,140.7 37,331.6 149,815.3 75,051.8 74,763.5 100%
1,415.2 493.6 65.8 1,737.3 8,489.1 15,491.3 -7,002.2 -45%
-64.2 74.2 -179.8 91.9 849.2 3,679.5 -2,830.3 -77%
26.6 18.1 19.2 339.1 1,757.7 1,251.5 506.2 40%
0.6 6.5 2,036.7 22,957.6 57,302.2 55,597.2 1,705.0 3%
20 82 3,265 9,489 44,715 43,219 1,496 3%
-342.6 -5.3 1,109.5 35,656.7 44,714.0 65,981.9 -21,267.9 -32%
11,550.1 18.8 1,281.8 28,679.1 95,873.8 67,978.6 27,895.3 41%
-36.9% 9.6% -17.0% 111.4%
1.1% 12.8% 6.3% 7.7%
0.6% 0.3% 0.9% 3.4%
0.5% 12.4% 5.4% 4.3%
Europe – minor countries(1)
United
Economic data UM Ireland Norway Poland Slovakia Turkey Kingdom Russia 2022 2021 2022-2021 %
Revenues
€/mil 10.9 0.4 19.4 - 0.0 22.0 327.1 379.8 612.0 -232.2 -38%
Unrelated
Revenue
related cross €/mil 3.9 0.1 0.2 - 1.0 0.9 21.3 27.5 13.2 14.2 107%
border
Profit (Loss)
before income €/mil 1.7 -1.7 1.9 -1.3 -2.5 2.0 43.2 43.4 33.8 9.5 28%
tax
Income tax
€/mil - 0.0 0.5 - 0.1 - 5.5 6.2 0.1 6.1 4847%
accrued
Income tax
€/mil 0.0 - 0.4 - 0.1 - 0.0 0.5 5.5 -5.0 -90%
paid
Tangible assets
other than
€/mil 0.5 0.0 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.1 2.7 3.7 852.2 -848.5 -100%
cash and cash
equivalents
Number of
no. 57 4 22 - 1 32 5 121 1,566 -1,445 -92%
employees
Accumulated
€/mil -0.6 -0.4 -1.6 - -7.5 -7.1 5.1 -12.1 346.8 -358.9 -103%
earnings
Corporation
€/mil 30.0 5.1 5.8 - 2.9 20.9 3.5 68.1 1,020.1 -952.0 -93%
Stock
(1) Beyond what is shown, in some tax jurisdictions the Group is present through entities in pre-operations phase and/or in liquidation and whose overall values
are immaterial. For this reason, these countries are not represented in the report. They are: Serbia and Sweden.
North America - main countries
USA &
Economic data UM Canada Mexico 2022 2021 2022-2021 %
Taxes Borne €/mil 78.0 6.4 84.4 57.5 26.9 47%
Profit taxes €/mil 1.6 3.9 5.5 7.8 -2.3 -30%
Income tax paid €/mil 1.6 3.9 5.5 7.8 -2.3 -30%
Property taxes €/mil 60.0 - 60.0 37.6 22.5 60%
Employment Taxes €/mil 15.7 2.5 18.2 10.5 7.7 73%
Taxes on products and services €/mil 0.7 - 0.7 1.6 -0.9 -58%
Planet/Environmental Taxes €/mil - 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.0 -55%
Taxes Collected €/mil 60.9 17.3 78.2 65.8 12.4 19%
Profit taxes €/mil - 0.0 0.0 0.2 -0.2 -97%
Property Taxes €/mil - 0.8 0.8 1.0 -0.2 -20%
Employment Taxes €/mil 60.3 4.5 64.9 49.2 15.7 32%
Taxes on products and services €/mil 0.6 12.0 12.5 15.3 -2.8 -19%
Planet/Environmental Taxes €/mil - - - - - 0%
Total Tax Contibution (cash accounting) €/mil 138.8 23.7 162.6 123.3 39.3 32%
USA &
Economic data UM Canada Mexico 2022 2021 2022-2021 %
Revenues Unrelated €/mil 2,130.7 351.2 2,481.9 1,752.0 729.9 42%
Revenue related cross border €/mil 51.0 14.4 65.4 23.9 41.5 174%
Profit (Loss) before income tax €/mil 239.9 -590.2 -350.3 107.6 -457.9 -425%
Income tax accrued €/mil 48.3 8.1 56.4 -2.8 59.2 2132%
Tangible assets other than cash and cash equivalents €/mil 12,876.9 841.2 13,718.1 11,410.2 2,307.9 20%
Number of employees no. 1,775 325 2,100 1,914 186 10%
Accumulated earnings €/mil 1,104.5 -32.8 1,071.7 913.7 158.0 17%
Corporation Stock €/mil 23,185.6 1,702.2 24,887.8 17,383.3 7,504.5 43%
TTC Rate % 24.6% -1.1%
TTC in relation to revenues % 6.4% 6.5%
Taxes borne in relation to revenues % 3.6% 1.8%
Taxes collected in relation to revenues % 2.8% 4.7%
Latin America - main countries
Costa 2022-
UM Argentina Brazil Chile Colombia Rica Guatemala Panama Peru 2022 2021 2021 %
Taxes Borne €/mil 53.6 812.6 131.5 400.9 1.4 6.3 32.1 136.4 1,574.8 1,392.7 182.1 13%
Profit taxes €/mil 22.1 135.5 71.8 285.5 0.6 5.8 29.5 113.9 664.8 753.9 -89.0 -12%
Income tax
€/mil 19.3 135.5 71.8 262.8 - 5.7 29.5 113.9 638.6 730.9 -92.3 -13%
paid
Property taxes €/mil 1.3 30.2 3.6 1.6 0.2 0.2 0.4 2.6 40.1 19.1 21.0 110%
Employment
€/mil 18.7 72.1 - 13.8 0.6 0.3 0.5 2.1 108.1 89.8 18.3 20%
Taxes
Taxes on
products and €/mil 7.9 574.6 17.9 77.2 - - 0.2 15.6 693.4 479.3 214.2 45%
services
Planet/
Environmental €/mil 3.6 0.2 38.1 22.9 0.0 0.0 1.5 2.1 68.3 50.6 17.7 35%
Taxes
Taxes Collected €/mil 166.8 2,071.8 61.3 70.1 2.9 5.6 5.5 96.2 2,480.3 2,356.2 124.1 5%
Profit taxes €/mil 10.6 18.5 9.8 20.6 0.0 0.9 4.7 1.6 66.8 64.3 2.5 4%
Property Taxes €/mil - - - - - - - - - - - 0%
Employment
€/mil 18.7 42.6 19.8 10.9 0.2 0.1 0.4 8.1 100.8 85.5 15.3 18%
Taxes
Taxes on
products and €/mil 137.4 2,010.8 31.7 24.7 2.7 4.6 0.4 86.5 2,298.8 2,195.3 103.5 4.7%
services
Planet/
Environmental €/mil - - - 13.9 - - - - 13.9 11.1 2.8 25%
Taxes
Total Tax
Contibution
€/mil 220.4 2,884.5 192.8 471.0 4.3 12.0 37.6 232.6 4,055.1 3,748.9 306.2 8%
(cash
accounting)
Costa 2022-
Economic data UM Argentina Brazil Chile Colombia Rica Guatemala Panama Peru 2022 2021 2021 %
Revenues
€/mil 3,216.0 10,435.1 6,897.2 2,837.0 21.2 95.8 179.7 1,516.6 25,198.6 18,971.6 6,226.9 33%
Unrelated
Revenue related
€/mil 27.3 295.7 476.5 7.9 1.0 2.5 0.3 0.1 811.4 113.8 697.6 613%
cross border
Profit (Loss)
before income €/mil 261.1 241.7 1,935.2 932.3 1.9 44.2 79.6 448.8 3,944.7 1,341.8 2,602.9 194%
tax
Income tax
€/mil 44.2 225.8 374.2 371.0 0.4 5.6 23.2 138.4 1,182.9 595.6 587.4 99%
accrued
Tangible assets
other than
€/mil 2,402.1 4,198.6 7,525.3 3,558.7 29.4 359.3 416.9 2,803.7 21,294.1 18,602.9 2,691.2 14%
cash and cash
equivalents
Number of
no. 4,032 7,506 2,197 2,327 35 92 96 1,075 17,360 18,762 -1,402 -7%
employees
Accumulated
€/mil 765.4 295.8 1,305.0 874.9 -85.9 175.1 128.8 -340.2 3,118.9 6,788.5 -3,669.6 -54%
earnings
Corporation
€/mil 1,097.7 14,772.4 22,150.2 1,932.2 275.9 264.2 437.7 2,896.8 43,827.0 36,381.3 7,445.7 20%
Stock
TTC Rate % 18.2% 88.4% 6.6% 37.5% 42.1% 14.2% 39.1% 28.9%
TTC in relation to
% 6.8% 26.9% 2.6% 16.6% 19.3% 12.2% 20.9% 15.3%
revenues
Taxes borne
in relation to % 1.7% 7.6% 1.8% 14.1% 6.2% 6.4% 17.8% 9.0%
revenues
Taxes collected
in relation to % 5.1% 19.3% 0.8% 2.5% 13.2% 5.7% 3.0% 6.3%
revenues
Latin America – minor countries(1)
Economic data UM Uruguay 2022 2021 2021-2020 %
Revenues Unrelated €/mil 0.3 0.3 1.6 -1.2 -80%
Revenue related cross border €/mil - - 0.0 -0.0 0%
Profit (Loss) before income tax €/mil -0.2 -0.2 1.2 -1.4 -119%
Income tax accrued €/mil - - 0.1 -0.1
Income tax paid €/mil 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.1 0%
Tangible assets other than cash and cash
€/mil 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.0 0%
equivalents
Number of employees no. 1 1 1 - 0%
Accumulated earnings €/mil 0.4 0.4 -0.8 1.2 157%
Corporation Stock €/mil - - - - -
(1) Beyond what is shown, in some tax jurisdictions the Group is present through entities in pre-operations phase and/or in liquidation and whose overall values
are immaterial. For this reason, these countries are not represented in the report. They are: El Salvador.
Africa and Oceania - main countries
UM South Africa 2022 2021 2022-2021 %
Taxes Borne €/mil 0.1 0.1 - 0.1
Profit taxes €/mil 0.1 0.1 - 0.1
Income tax paid €/mil 0.1 0.1 - 0.1
Property taxes €/mil - - - - 0%
Employment Taxes €/mil - - - - 0%
Taxes on products and services €/mil - - - - 0%
Planet/Environmental Taxes €/mil - - - - 0%
Taxes Collected €/mil 4.2 4.2 3.8 0.4 10%
Profit taxes €/mil 0.4 0.4 0.2 0.2 132%
Property Taxes €/mil - - - - 0%
Employment Taxes €/mil 3.9 3.9 3.7 0.2 5%
Taxes on products and services €/mil - - - - 0%
Planet/Environmental Taxes €/mil - - - - 0%
Total Tax Contibution (cash accounting) €/mil 4.4 4.4 3.8 0.5 14%
Economic data UM South Africa 2022 2021 2022-2021 %
Revenues Unrelated €/mil 120.5 120.5 133.3 -12.9 -10%
Revenue related cross border €/mil 0.2 0.2 7.2 -7.0 -97%
Profit (Loss) before income tax €/mil -16.9 -16.9 -1.8 -15.1 -835%
Income tax accrued €/mil - - - - 0%
Tangible assets other than cash and cash
€/mil 384.3 384.3 1,271.6 -887.3 -70%
equivalents
Number of employees no. 182 182 178 4 2%
Accumulated earnings €/mil -166.3 -166.3 -223.7 57.4 26%
Corporation Stock €/mil 689.7 689.7 1,151.5 -461.9 -40%
TTC Rate % -0.7%
TTC in relation to revenues % 3.6%
Taxes borne in relation to revenues % 0.1%
Taxes collected in relation to revenues % 3.5%
Africa and Oceania – minor countries(1)
New
Economic data UM Australia Kenya Morocco Zealand Zambia 2022 2021 2022-2021 %
Revenues Unrelated €/mil 45.2 0.0 4.4 3.9 7.4 60.8 86.0 -25.2 -29%
Revenue related cross border €/mil 1.6 - - 0.3 - 1.9 2.7 -0.8 -29%
Profit (Loss) before income tax €/mil -25.4 -0.5 -2.4 0.2 0.4 -27.7 -18.4 -9.3 -50%
Income tax accrued €/mil 0.0 - 0.0 0.1 - 0.1 2.1 -2.0 -94%
Income tax paid €/mil 0.0 - - 0.1 - 0.1 -0.4 0.5 123%
Tangible assets other than cash
€/mil 334.3 0.0 0.9 0.1 26.7 362.0 316.8 45.1 14%
and cash equivalents
Number of employees no. 95 2 39 6 6 148 139 9 6%
Accumulated earnings €/mil -66.9 -3.9 1.5 -0.4 -7.1 -76.8 -55.9 -20.9 -37%
Corporation Stock €/mil 496.6 2.7 59.8 2.0 9.5 570.6 434.8 135.8 31%
(1) Beyond what is shown, in some tax jurisdictions the Group is present through entities in pre-operations phase and/or in liquidation and whose overall values
are immaterial. For this reason, these countries are not represented in the report. They are: Namibia, Ethiopia and Egypt.
Asia - main countries
UM India 2022 2021 2022-2021 %
Taxes Borne €/mil 1.4 1.4 0.4 1.0 260%
Profit taxes €/mil 1.4 1.4 0.4 1.0 260%
Income tax paid €/mil 1.4 1.4 0.4 1.0 246%
Property taxes €/mil - - - - 0%
Employment Taxes €/mil - - - - 0%
Taxes on products and services €/mil - - - - 0%
Planet/Environmental Taxes €/mil - - - - 0%
Taxes Collected €/mil 5.4 5.4 2.2 3.3 149%
Profit taxes €/mil 3.0 3.0 1.1 1.9 169%
Property Taxes €/mil - - - - 0%
Employment Taxes €/mil 1.4 1.4 0.9 0.5 52%
Taxes on products and services €/mil 1.1 1.1 0.2 0.9 0%
Planet/Environmental Taxes €/mil - - - - 0%
Total Tax Contibution (cash accounting) €/mil 6.9 6.9 2.6 4.3 166%
Economic data UM India 2022 2021 2022-2021 %
Revenues Unrelated €/mil 42.2 42.2 14.4 27.8 193%
Revenue related cross border €/mil 9.0 9.0 7.5 1.5 20%
Profit (Loss) before income tax €/mil -20.7 -20.7 -5.7 -15.1 -267%
Income tax accrued €/mil - - 0.1 -0.1
Tangible assets other than cash and cash
€/mil 225.6 225.6 320.3 -94.7 -30%
equivalents
Number of employees no. 397 397 418 -21 -5%
Accumulated earnings €/mil -23.3 -23.3 -22.2 -1.1 5%
Corporation Stock €/mil 210.9 210.9 189.3 21.6 11%
TTC Rate % -7.0%
TTC in relation to revenues % 13.5%
Taxes borne in relation to revenues % 2.8%
Taxes collected in relation to revenues % 10.6%
Asia – minor countries(1)
South
Economic data UM China Indonesia Israel Japan Singapore Korea Taiwan 2022 2021 2022-2021 %
Revenues Unrelated €/mil 0.0 -0.0 1.2 17.6 0.4 30.7 1.3 51.2 39.8 11.4 29%
Revenue related
€/mil 0.4 - - 0.2 - 0.1 0.0 0.7 0.6 0.1 20%
cross border
Profit (Loss) before
€/mil -3.5 -0.1 -0.0 0.1 -2.3 -1.8 -1.4 -9.1 -10.7 1.7 16%
income tax
Income tax accrued €/mil - - 0.0 -0.0 0.0 0.0 - -0.0 0.1 -0.1 -117%
Income tax paid €/mil - - 0.0 0.0 - 0.0 - 0.0 0.0 -0.0 0%
Tangible assets other
than cash and cash €/mil 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.3 0.2 8.1 1.1 10.0 8.4 1.6 19%
equivalents
Number of
no. 12 - 1 21 2 43 10 89 81 8 10%
employees
Accumulated
€/mil -3.7 -3.0 - 1.4 -7.6 -24.0 -1.7 -38.7 -33.2 -5.5 -16%
earnings
Corporation Stock €/mil 3.2 3.7 - 0.2 6.4 34.6 4.8 52.9 59.9 -7.0 -12%
(1) Beyond what is shown, in some tax jurisdictions the Group is present through entities in pre-operations phase and/or in liquidation and whose overall values
are immaterial. For this reason, these countries are not represented in the report. They are: Saudi Arabia and Vietnam.
Reconciliations with the 2022 Integrated Annual Report
In the following paragraphs, a reconciliation of data rep- This reconciliation is necessary given the different meth-
resented in the Tax Transparency Report is made with ods for drafting the Tax Transparency Report – which have
respect to the contents of the Integrated Annual Report been changed by the OECD rules for Country-by Country
2022. Reporting – with respect to the principles adopted for the
drafting of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
€/mil
Consolidated Financial Difference to be
Items subject to reconciliation Tax Transparency Report Statements reconciled
Third party revenues 170,151 140,518 -37,633
Earnings before taxes 4,411 8,741 4,330
Tangible assets 93,300 88,615 -4,685
Taxes paid 1,800 1,934 134
Third party revenues
The deviations between the data given in the Tax Transparen- amount on a separate line of the Profit and Loss statement,
cy Report and the data in the Integrated Annual Report 2022 whereas for the purposes of the Tax Transparency Report
are: these revenues are represented analytically among the re-
i. Derivatives (-25,827 million euros): for the purposes of the sults of the companies within the scope;
Integrated Annual Report, derivatives are the responsibility iv. Fair value of companies consolidated using the equity
of the companies that do not operate in the market (direct method (436 million euros): for purposes of the Integrated
balance sheet accounting management) while in the indi- Annual Report, revenues related to impairment operations
vidual financial statements of the countries that operate on on companies consolidated using the equity method are
the market they are recognized in the income statement; included in the year results. For the purposes of the Tax
ii. Financial income (-8,287 million euros): for the purposes Transparency Report, the results related to the companies
of the Integrated Annual Report the financial data for finan- consolidated using the equity method are excluded as
cial income is entered in the financial statements on a spe- these entities are not relevant;
cific line of the Profit and Loss statement that is different v. Dividends from companies consolidated using the equity
than the revenue item, which differs from what is request- method (-262 million euros): for purposes of the Integrat-
ed by the OECD rules(48) applied for the purposes of the Tax ed Annual Report, dividends received from consolidated
Transparency Report; companies(50) are eliminated. These revenues are consid-
iii. Revenue from discontinued operations(49) (-3,998 million ered in the Tax Transparency Report;
euros): for the purposes of the Integrated Annual Report, vi. Other consolidation adjustments made on the basis of the
the revenues related to Group components (branches, application of international accounting principles (305 mil-
companies or geographical areas) that have been discon- lion euros(51)).
tinued or classified as held for sale are stated in a single net
€/mil
Third Party Revenues - Tax Transparency Report 178,151
Derivatives -25,827
Financial income -8,287
Revenues from discontinued operations -3,998
Fair value of companies consolidated using the equity method 436
Dividends from companies consolidated using the equity method -262
Other consolidation adjustments 305
Revenues - Consolidated Financial Statements 140,518
(48)For the purposes of Country-by-Country Reporting (BEPS Project – Action 13).
(49)For more details regarding the definition of discontinued operations, refer to the Integrated Annual Report.
(50)Using the full, proportional and equity method.
(51) These include the following specific situations listed by way of example only: (i) elimination of intercompany margins and gains, (ii) recognition of any nega-
tive goodwill following M&A transactions, (iii) capitalizations of financial expenses in cases of equity injection and (iv) adjustments to contracts with physical
delivery stated at fair value.
Earnings before taxes
The deviations between the data given in the Tax Transpar- iii. Company dividends measured at equity (-262 million
ency Report and the data in the Integrated Annual Report euros): for the purposes of the Integrated Annual Re-
are: port, dividends received from consolidated companies
i. Impairment on shareholdings (3,326 million euros): the are eliminated. These revenues are considered in the
accounting records for equity investments consolidat- Tax Transparency Report;
ed with the full method does not have an impact on the iv. Results from discontinued operations (-154 million eu-
Profit and Loss statement. These accounting records ros): for the purposes of the Integrated Annual Report,
however involve a reduction in profit before taxes for the results related to Group components (branches,
the purposes of the Tax Transparency Report; companies or geographical areas) that have been dis-
ii. Derivative management (1,467 million euros): for the continued or classified as held for sale are stated as a
purpose of the Integrated Annual Report, the account- single net amount on a separate line of the Profit and
ing records related to the reversal of the Cash Flow Loss statement, whereas for the purposes of the Tax
Hedge reserve for a possibly different qualification of Transparency Report these revenues are represented
the derivatives between the stand alone view of the analytically among those of the companies within the
Company and that of the Group do not have any impact scope;
on the Profit and Loss statement. These accounting re- v. Other consolidation adjustments made on the basis of
cords however involve a reduction in profit before taxes the application of international accounting principles
for the purposes of the Tax Transparency Report; (-47 million euros(52)).
€/mil
Earnings before taxes - Tax Transparency Report 4,411
Impairment losses on shareholdings 3,326
Derivative management 1,467
Dividends from companies accounted for using the equity method -262
Results from discontinued operations -154
Other consolidation adjustments -47
Earnings before taxes - Integrated Annual Report 8,741
Tangible assets
The deviations between the data given in the Tax Transpar- are due to Adjustments from consolidation (-4,685 million
ency Report and the data in the Integrated Annual Report euros).(53)
€/mil
Tangible Assets - Tax Transparency Report 93,300
Adjustments from consolidation -4,685
Consolidated Tangible Assets 88,615
(52) These include the following specific situations listed by way of example only: (i) adjustments for adaptation of value following impairment tests and conse-
quent adjustments of depreciation and amortization, (ii) elimination of gains from intercompany sales of assets and consequent adjustments of deprecia-
tion and amortization and (iii) changes during the year in the scope of consolidation, (iv) provision (or release) of funds in the Profit and Loss statement, (v)
result of companies accounted for using the equity method, and (vi) intercompany capital losses (capital gains).
(53) Adjustments due to the effects of (i) Purchase Price Allocations made during acquisition of controlling interests in companies, (ii) impairment of cash gener-
ating units, (iii) capitalizations of financial expenses of fixed assets realized internally, (iv) elimination of any gains during the sale of intercompany assets and
(v) elimination of effects related to discontinued operations and assets qualified as Available for Sale.
Income taxes paid
The data of income taxes paid for the purposes of the Inte- lected from the individual companies in the different tax
grated Annual Financial Report is determined through the jurisdictions, consistent with the rules laid down by the
method of indirect recognition, provided for under inter- OECD for Country-by-Country Reporting.
national accounting principle IAS 7. The deviation is due to the different methods of recogniz-
Contrarily, the Tax Transparency Report recognizes the ing the data and to the principles to which they refer.(54)
data for income taxes paid on the basis of information col-
€/mil
Taxes paid - Tax Transparency Report 1,800
Differences due to the use of the indirect method for the purposes of the statement of cash flows 134
Taxes paid - Integrated Annual Report 1,934
Tax Rate
With reference to the reconciliation between the theoret-
ical and actual tax rate, reference should be made to the
analysis contained in the Integrated Annual Report 2022.
(54)By way of example only, the differences in 2022 can be related to: (i) inclusion in the data of the Integrated Annual Report of the taxes related to dividends
(excluded from the data in the Tax Transparency Report) and (ii) changes during the year in the scope of consolidation.
TOPIC VIEW
5.
Appendix
5.1 Methodological note
5.2 Sustainability Statement: performance
indicators
5.3 Content Index
GRI
SASB
TCFD
EUROPEAN COMMISSION GUIDELINES ON
REPORTING CLIMATE-RELATED INFORMATION
WEF
SUSTAINABLE FINANCE DISCLOSURE
REGULATION (PAI)
HUMAN RIGHTS
5.4 Our position on and commitment to the
European Taxonomy
Methodological note
2-1 2-2 2-3 2-4 2-5 2-29 3-1 3-2
Since 2003 Enel has been publishing a Sustainability Re- of the Enel Group, including on human rights and how they
port each year, at the same time as the Group Consolidat- manage these impacts.
ed Annual Report. With respect to previous years, the structure of this doc-
In compliance with the requirements of Italian Legislative De- ument has been redefined, providing an entire section on
cree 254 of December 30, 2016, “Implementation of Directive the materiality analysis in a specific chapter, “Materiali-
2014/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council ty analysis process and results for 2022” and attaching a
of October 22, 2014, amending Directive 2013/34/EU as re- specific table linking the topics and information required
gards disclosure of non-financial and diversity information by by the European Regulation that regulates disclosures in
certain large companies and groups”, Enel has been publish- the area of sustainable finance (SFDR, Sustainable Finance
ing a Consolidated Non-Financial Statement (NFS) since 2017. Disclosure Regulation) with content provided in this doc-
The Sustainability Report will constitute Enel’s NFS with effect ument, indicating the specific chapter of reference in the
from the 2019 financial year. Accordingly, from that financial document. Furthermore, a separate section was prepared
year on, the NFS is no longer published as a separate docu- for reporting related to the just transition, in line with the
ment. This Report of the Enel Group at December 31, 2022 main sustainability trains (see chapter “Our commitment to
was therefore drawn up in compliance with Italian Legislative a just transition: leaving no one behind”).
Decree 254/16 and the 2019 Budget Act and article 5 of the To the extent necessary to ensure an understanding of
CONSOB Regulations adopted with Resolution no. 20267 of the Company’s activities, performance, results and impact,
18 January 2018 and it is a separate document with respect to this document covers environmental, social, labor, human
the Report on Operations. The document is published in the rights and active and passive anti-corruption topics that
“Investors” section of the Enel website (www.enel.com). are material to Enel, in view of the Company’s activities and
The Sustainability Report 2022 is addressed to the Enel characteristics, according to the process described below
Group’s stakeholders and is designed to present the actions (see the chapter “Materiality analysis process and results
taken in pursuit of the Group’s sustainability goals and thus for 2022”).
to respond to the legitimate expectations of all stakeholders, The following table shows the areas required by Italian Leg-
providing a complete overview of the most significant im- islative Decree 254/16, specifying the document chapter
pacts on the economy, the environment and on the people in which they are discussed.
Information and in-depth analyses Enel SpA
on the issues and indicators Innovability® Function (Innovation and Sustainability)
presented in this Report can Sustainability Planning and Performance Management
be requested from: and Human Rights
Viale Regina Margherita, 137
00198 Rome - Italy
Tel +39 06 83051
E-mail sustainability@enel.com
Web https://www.enel.com/it/investors1
Topic of the Report/
Italian Legislative Topic of the materiality Report Policies and Activities and
Decree 254/16 analysis chapter Risks management models results
Decarbonization of the Zero emissions “Zero emissions “Zero emissions “Zero emissions
energy mix ambition ambition” chapter ambition” chapter ambition” chapter
Environment Conservation of
ecosystems and Conservation of natural “Sound governance” “Conservation of “Conservation of
environmental capital chapter natural capital” chapter natural capital” chapter
management
Engaging global and “Sound governance” “Engaging “Engaging
Engaging communities
local communities chapter communities” chapter communities” chapter
Social
Sustainable supply Sustainable supply “Sound governance” “Sustainable supply “Sustainable supply
chain chain chapter chain” chapter chain” chapter
People management,
Empowering Enel “Sound governance” “Empowering Enel “Empowering Enel
development and
people chapter people” chapter people” chapter
Employment and motivation
labor-related
Occupational health Occupational health “Sound governance” “Occupational health “Occupational health
and safety and safety chapter and safety” chapter and safety” chapter
Sound governance and
fair corporate conduct
People management,
development and
motivation
Managing
Engaging global and “Managing human “Managing human
human rights “Sound governance”
Human rights local communities rights” and “Sound rights” and “Sound
chapter
governance” chapters governance” chapters
Sound governance
Conservation of
the ecosystems
and environmental
management
Sustainable supply
chain
Active and passive
Sound governance and “Sound governance” “Sound governance” “Sound governance”
fight against Sound governance
fair corporate conduct chapter chapter chapter
corruption
How this document
has been constructed
The Sustainability Report 2022 was prepared in compli- topics and information required by the European Regula-
ance with the reporting standards “Consolidated set of tion that regulates disclosures in the area of sustainable
GRI Standards” defined by GRI in 2021 with the inclusion finance (SFDR). The Sustainability Report 2022 also re-
of the GRI Universal Standard 2021, and also considering sponds to the qualitative indications of the Taskforce on
the Electric Utilities Disclosure supplement dedicated to Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and the UN
the sector issued in 2013, also by GRI and still applicable Guiding Principles Reporting Framework; the alignment is
today. pointed out in the TCFD Content Index, which includes
Moreover, for comprehensive reporting in relation to the the section of the financial statements that cover the
material topics identified following the materiality anal- qualitative disclosure requests of the TCFD and European
ysis, the directors deemed it necessary to include sev- Community Climate Guidelines.
eral additional disclosures, as more fully specified in this
document. This information, in compliance with standard The Sustainability Report is part of the Enel corporate re-
GRI 1: Fundamental Principles 2021, the disclosures in porting system, and the information it provides is more
question were subjected to the same technical rigor re- detailed than and supplementary to the annexed docu-
quired by the reporting standard adopted. The reporting ments cross referenced in the Report. The non-financial
standards adopted, as described above, comply with the information to be presented within the various corporate
disclosure obligations pursuant to Italian Legislative De- reporting system documents is selected based on the
cree 254/16 art. 1 letter “f” and art. 3, par. 3, which the materiality analysis results and considering the approach
directors decided to adopt organically in order to fully set down in “Reporting on enterprise value”, released in
represent the social and environmental topics – in com- December 2020 by the main reference International or-
pliance with the mentioned decree – of significance for ganizations (CDP, CDSB, GRI and SASB). In particular, the
the Enel Group in consideration of the Group structure, content formulation process was based on the princi-
the specific business sectors, and the reference geo- ples of relevance (or “materiality”), stakeholder inclusivity,
graphical areas. sustainability context and completeness of the data and
Furthermore, the Appendix to the Sustainability Report information: Enel provides concise information on its per-
contains specific tables of reconciliation with indicators formance in specific sections of the Sustainability Report
proposed by the WEF white paper “Toward Common (see “Our sustainable progress” and “Our performance”);
Metrics and Consistent Reporting of Sustainable Value these chapters contain descriptions also of the goals and
Creation” and with the indicators proposed by the Sus- associated progress referred to the Sustainable Develop-
tainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB – in relation ment Goals (SDG), in order to provide full disclosure of all
to Enel’s core business area in the Electric Utilities & Pow- relevant information in the reporting period, together with
er Generators Sector) as well as a specific table linking reliable estimates for the future. The quality of information
the topics and information related to the protection of reported is assured by proceeding in compliance with the
human rights and the Group’s Human Rights Policy. Start- principles of accuracy, balance, clarity, completeness, sus-
ing from 2022, a specific table is attached that links the tainability context, timeliness, and verifiability.
Sustainability Report
This includes the Consolidated Non-Financial Statement
pursuant to Legislative Decree 254/2016 and presents Enel’s
sustainable business model for creating value for all
stakeholders and contributing to achievement of the 17
Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations
Report and financial
statements of Enel SpA
This is prepared in conformity with Article 9, paragraph 3, of
Legislative Decree 38 of February 28, 2005
Integrated Annual Report
2022
Report on Corporate Governance
and the Ownership Structure
This describes the Enel corporate governance system
pursuant to Article 123-bis of the Consolidated Law on
Financial Intermediation and Article 144-decies of the
CONSOB Issuers Regulation
Report on Remuneration Policy
This describes the Enel remuneration system, as
provided for by Article 123-ter of the Consolidated
Law on Financial Intermediation
This report is also compliant with the AccountAbility the SDGs and the GRI standards” published by GRI in Jan-
AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard (AA1000SES), uary 2021, and SDG Compass, the guide published in No-
and took into account the draft of the ESRS 1 standard vember 2015 and developed by GRI, UN Global Compact
– General Requirements prepared by EFRAG (European and the World Business Council for Sustainable Develop-
Financial Reporting Advisory Group), as well as the Value ment (WBCSD) to help companies align their strategies
Reporting Foundation – SASB standard. with the SDGs and measure and manage their contribution
Finally, the main UN SDGs are referenced in the various to the goals.
chapters, in accordance with the instructions in “Linking
Reconciliation of the topics of the materiality analysis
and GRI Standards
3-1 3-2 3-3
The materiality analysis carried out in compliance with dedicated to the electric utilities sector (“Electric Utilities
standard GRI 3: 2021 materiality topics made it possible Sector Disclosures”) of reference, along with an indication
to identify the material topics for the Company. The table of the context internal and external to the organization and
contains the codes for the material topics identified with the limitations on the scope, and is provided in the chapter
the GRI Standards or the “Aspects” of the GRI supplement “Materiality analysis process and results for 2022”.
The reporting process
The structure of the Sustainability Report 2022 was devel- formed the basis for definition of Enel’s sustainability goals
oped in accordance with the materiality analysis, focusing for the 2023-2025 period, as illustrated by the Sustainabil-
more closely on the material topics covered in detail in the ity Plan (see chapter “We empower sustainable progress”).
dedicated chapters. Likewise, the materiality level of the The GRI Context Index, included in the Appendix, con-
topics – divided in turn into dedicated sub-topics – influ- tains references to the 2022 Sustainability Report and the
enced the level of detail with which to treat each subject Group’s other reporting instruments. Please also consult
and report the associated GRI indicators (GRI Standards the website www.enel.com for further information, for ex-
and Electric Utilities Sector Disclosure) and also the choice ample regarding innovation projects or the activities of
of the most appropriate tools to represent them (2022 In- Enel’s foundations and the 2022 Informe de Sostenibilidad
tegrated Annual Report and appended reports), to which by Endesa and Enel Américas for additional details con-
reference was made for the treatment or detailed investi- cerning initiatives dedicated to customers and local com-
gation of more specific topics, respectively, of economic munities in Spain and South America.
performance and governance. The materiality analysis also
Drafting and assurance
2-5
The process of reporting and monitoring the Key Perfor- Consolidated Annual Report.
mance Indicators (“KPIs”) relevant to sustainability involves This Report has been subjected to a limited audit by and
the Holding Company, with regard to transversal issues, independent auditing company, KPMG SpA, engaged also
and all Group Business Lines, Functions and companies to audit the Enel Group’s Consolidated Annual Report. The
for issues and indicators specific to the various sectors of limited audit was conducted in accordance with interna-
activity. tional standard ISAE 3000 (Revised) 1 and, accordingly, the
Those responsible for collecting, verifying and processing Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, including
the relevant KPIs are identified within the units involved. professional independence and verification of the absence
The Sustainability Planning and Performance Management of conflicts of interest that may affect the ethical principles
and Human Rights unit, which forms part of the Innovabil- of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and dili-
ity® Function, is responsible for consolidating information gence, confidentiality and professional conduct. As of the
and coordinating the entire 2022 Sustainability Report 2021 financial year, the audit approach has been extended
drafting process. to include the comprehensive scrutiny (reasonable assur-
On March 28, 2023, the Report was submitted for analysis ance) of a set relevant indicators, equal to 36 KPI for 2022
and evaluation by the Corporate Governance and Sustain- (25 KPI in 2021). This activity is aimed at obtaining greater
ability Committee and on April 5 to the Enel Control and security regarding the selected indicators as compared to
Risk Committee. It was approved by the Board of Direc- indicators and other information subject to limited scru-
tors on April 6. The document will then be presented to the tiny and makes it possible to guarantee to the various
General Shareholders’ Meeting together with the Group’s stakeholders of the Sustainability Report greater reliability
of the topics and information it contains. The conclusions 23. Intensity of GHG Scope 1 and 3 emissions related to
of the limited reasonable assurance activity are set out in Integrated Power
the Mixed Audit Report on the Enel Group non-financial 24. Absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions relating to gas retail
statement and on the selection of 36 indicators, issued in 25. Climate governance
accordance with Art. 3, paragraph 10 of Italian Legislative 26. Climate strategy
Decree 254/16 in compliance with ISAE 3000 Revised, and 27. Climate Risk Management
in compliance with the provisions of the Consob Regula-
tions and the guidelines issued by the professional bodies Gender diversity
concerned (i.e. ASSIREVI). The said report, which contains 28. Percentage of female managers and middle managers
a detailed description of the principles adopted, activities 29. Percentage of women in the managerial succession
performed and conclusions reached, is attached hereto. and top managerial plans
The 36 indicators subjected to reasonable assurance are 30. No. of total employees who are women
indicated below.
Supply chain
Occupational safety 31. Qualified suppliers evaluated in relation to social
1. No of fatalities – Enel aspects
2. No of fatalities – Contractors 32. Qualified suppliers evaluated in relation to
3. Fatality frequency rate – Enel environmental aspects
4. Fatality frequency rate – contractors
5. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate with absence of work Tax transparency
greater than 3 days – Enel 33. Current Income Tax Rate
6. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate with absence of work
greater than 3 days – Contractor Other
7. Injury frequency index with absence from work – Enel 34. Confirmed violations of the Code of Ethics by type,
8. Injury frequency index with absence from work – stakeholder, country
Contractors 35. Commercial complaints on the Group level
9. High Potential injury frequency rate – Enel 36. Number of cyber security incidents managed by CERT,
10. High Potential injury frequency rate – Contractors classified with a severity level between 2, 3 and 4
11. Frequency rate of total injuries – Enel
12. Frequency rate of total injuries – Contractors In addition, the report on the green bond, also subjected
13. “Life changing” injury frequency rate – Enel to limited scrutiny by KPMG SpA according to the criteria
14. “Life changing” injury frequency rate – Contractors indicated in standard ISAE 3000, is annexed to this Report;
the related audit report is supplied as an attachment to this
Grid resiliency Sustainability Report. The Statement of the proportion of
15. SAIDI – System Average Interruption Duration Index activities considered eco-sustainable (Art. 8, Reg. EU 852).
16. SAIFI – System Average Interruption Frequency Index The GHG Inventory Statements were audited by DNV GL,
with a reasonable level of certainty for Scope 1, Scope 2
Climate and Scope 3 emissions, restricted to natural gas sales ac-
17. Direct emissions Scope 1 tivities, and with a limited level of certainty for the other
18. Specific CO emissions – Scope 1 Scope 3 emissions included in the scope of application of
2eq
19. Scope 2 emissions – market based the inventory. The audit was conducted according to ISO
20. Scope 2 emissions – location based 4064-3 for compliance of greenhouse gas (GHG) inven-
21. Scope 3 emissions tories with the WBCSD/WRI Corporate Accounting and
22. Intensity of GHG Scope 1 emissions related to power Reporting Standard (GHG Protocol).
generation
Report boundaries
2-2 2-3 2-4 2-5 2-6 3-2
The information and data presented in the Report refer to company in the State of Goiás in Brazil.
Enel SpA and the companies within the scope of line-by- For more detailed information on the changes, refer to the
line consolidation at December 31, 2022, in accordance 2022 Consolidated Annual Report in the sections “Main
with the Group’s financial consolidation scope. In addition changes in the scope of consolidation” and “Significant
to the line-by-line consolidation scope, the document also events in 2022”.
includes the data and information regarding the compa- If the associated companies (measured at equity in the
ny Asociación Nuclear Ascó-Vandellós II AIE (ANA CNVII Consolidated Annual Report) and other entities over which
AIE), to which the two Spanish nuclear plants of Ascó and Enel exercises significant influence (including joint ven-
Vandellós are attributed. The company, considered to be tures) produce substantial impacts, for the purpose of the
a joint operation in line with the provisions of account- content of the present document, they are included in the
ing standard IFRS 11,(1) is included in the Group’s financial data calculation in proportion to Enel’s holding, and specif-
scope of consolidation under the proportional method, ic disclosure is referenced in the text. We invite you to refer
and is included in this report using the same method to en- to the 2022 Consolidated Annual Report for details of the
sure the impacts are adequately represented, given that it companies included the scope of consolidation.
is a significant Group entity. The sole exception to the line- In this Statement, the terms “Corporate”, “Holding Com-
by-line consolidation scope are the companies acquired in pany” and “Parent Company” refer to Enel SpA, whereas
2022, for which, on the basis of prevailing practice, as also “Group”, “Enel” and “Company” refer to Enel SpA and its
represented in the Consob report of January 19, 2018(2), it subsidiaries.
was decided to begin consolidation, with regard to some Various deviations from the KPIs and information included
of the areas covered in this document, with effect from in the 2021 Sustainability Report are the result of changes
2023, in the light of the reduced acquisition period. The in the Group’s scope of consolidation.
areas of exclusion have been indicated directly in the spe- The effects of changes in the scope of consolidation, to-
cific chapters. gether with any significant changes or limitations of the
In particular, the main organizational changes affecting the scope or methods of calculating individual indicators
Enel Group in 2022 were: compared with 2021, are expressly indicated in the text
•
completion of the acquisition of 527 MW of hydroelec- and/or the Appendix, along with the effects on the related
tric plants by Enel Produzione SpA; data. See the notes in the tables in the Appendix for all fur-
•
acquisition by Enel X of 50% of Mooney Group SpA, and ther details regarding adjustments with respect to already
the subsequent sale to it of all the activities related to published data, calculation methods, assumptions or sig-
the lending services of Enel X in Italy, marketed with the nificant limitations of indicators.
Enel X Pay brand (Enel X Financial Services, CityPoste The data have been thoroughly calculated on the basis of
Payment, PayTipper and Junia Insurance); the results of Enel’s accounting, non-accounting and oth-
•
sale of the entire investment held in PJ C Enel Russia er information systems, and validated by the persons re-
completed on October 12, 2022, which involved the sale sponsible in each case. Data determined through the use
of all the electricity generation assets in Russia, which of estimates and related calculation method have been ex-
include approximately 5.6 GW of conventional capacity pressly indicated. In the comparison of the data over time,
and approximately 300 MW of wind capacity in various it should be noted that differences between 2022 and
stages of development; 2021, in absolute and percent terms, have been calculated
•
completion of the sale of the electricity transmission considering decimal places in some cases not visible in the
business in Chile, through the sale of the company Enel printed document. In the tables containing quantitative
Transmisión Chile SA; data, percent changes in excess of |100%| are indicated by
•
finalization of the sale of 50% of Gridspertise to CVC; “-”
•
completion of the sale of the electricity distributing
(1) A “joint operation” is a joint-control arrangement in which the parties that hold joint control have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities asso-
ciated with the arrangement.
(2) Illustrative report on the results of the consultation and the consequences for regulation, the activities of companies and operators and the interests of
investors and savers.
Performance indicators
Key sustainability performance indicators are presented tative information presented in the document, the quan-
from page 457 to page 499 and form an integral part of titative indicators will be reported in a separate booklet
this Sustainability Report. In order to facilitate a reading of in the printed copy. This booklet will be contained in the
the performance indicators in conjunction with the quali- pocket on the inside back cover.
Units of measure • sec / seconds
• •
.000 / thousands t / tons
• •
.000 d / thousands of days TBq per unit / terabecquerels per unit
• •
.000 h / thousands of hours TOE / tons of oil equivalent
• •
.000 t / thousands of tons TJ / terajoules
• •
% / percentage TWh / Terawatt hours
•
years / years
•
cent euros / euro cents
• g/kWh / grams per kilowatt hour Acronyms
• •
g/kWh / grams per equivalent kilowatt hour(3) HV High Voltage
eq
• •
GBq per unit / gigabecquerels per unit EIB European Investment Bank
• •
gCO/kWh CO grams per kilowatt hour BOD Biochemical Oxygen Demand
2 2
• •
gCO /kWh CO equivalent grams per kilowatt hour LV Low Voltage
2eq 2
• •
dd / days CCGT Combined Cycle Gas Turbine
• •
GW / gigawatts BoD Board of Directors
• •
GWh / gigawatt hours CERT Cyber Emergency Readiness Team
• •
h / hours CSV Creating Shared Value
• •
h/per cap / hours per capita COD Chemical Oxygen Demand
• •
r / rate CSR Corporate Social Responsibility
• •
kg / kilograms EBT Earnings Before Tax
• •
km / kilometers EBIT Earnings Before Interest and Tax
• •
kWh / kilowatt hours EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and
•
kWh / equivalent kilowatt hours(3) Amortization
eq
• •
kWh/t / kilowatt hours per ton ESG Environmental Social & Governance
• •
kWp / peak kilowatts EGP Enel Green Power
• •
l/kWh / liters per kilowatt hour EPS Earnings per Share
• •
l/kWh / liters per equivalent kilowatt hour(3) RT Remote Training
eq
• •
billions of m3 / billions of cubic meters IPO Initial Public Offering
• •
MJ/kWh / megajoules per equivalent kilowatt hour(3) IRAP Imposta Regionale sulle Attività Produttive
eq
•
ML / megaliters (Regional Business Tax)
• •
mil million IRES Imposta sul Reddito delle Società (Corporate
•
mil A4 / millions of equivalent A4 sheets Income Tax)
eq
• •
mil euros / millions of euros LBG London Benchmarking Group
• •
Mh / mil h / millions of hours MV Medium Voltage
• •
Ml / mil l / millions of liters PCBs Polychlorinated Biphenyls
• •
Mm3 /mil m3 / millions of cubic meters R&D Research & Development
• •
Mt / mil t / millions of tons S&P Standard & Poor’s
• •
M tCO / mil tCO / CO equivalent millions of tons SRI Socially Responsible Investor
2eq 2eq 2
• •
M t / mil t / millions of equivalent tons TSR Total Shareholder Return
eq eq
• •
min / minutes SCIGR Internal Control and Risk Management System
• •
Mtoe / millions of tons of oil equivalent SDG Sustainable Development Goal
• •
MW / megawatts TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure
• •
MWh / megawatt hours UN United Nations
•
no. / number
(3) Corresponding to the sum of electrical energy and heat.
Sustainability Statement:
performance indicators
We empower
sustainable progress
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
EU1 GENERATION
Installed capacity
Net efficient generation capacity by primary
energy source
Thermal net capacity: (MW) 27,689 33,664 35,623 -5,975 -17.7 Enel
Coal (MW) 6,590 6,910 8,903 -320 -4.6 Enel
CCGT (MW) 13,894 15,039 15,009 -1,145 -7.6 Enel
Oil/Gas (MW) 7,204 11,715 11,711 -4,511 -38.5 Enel
Nuclear net capacity (MW) 3,328 3,328 3,328 - - Enel
Renewable net capacity: (MW) 53,561 50,066 45,016 3,495 7.0 Enel
Hydroelectric (MW) 28,355 27,847 27,820 508 1.8 Enel
Wind (MW) 15,735 14,903 12,412 832 5.6 Enel
Geothermal (MW) 931 915 882 16 1.8 Enel
Biomass and cogeneration (MW) 6 6 5 - - Enel
Photovoltaic (MW) 8,534 6,395 3,897 2,139 33.5 Enel
Total net electrical capacity (MW) 84,578 87,058 83,967 -2,480 -2.8 Enel
Net efficient generation capacity by
geographic area
Italy (MW) 26,252 25,609 26,400 643 2.5 Italy
Iberia (MW) 22,044 21,140 21,652 904 4.3 Iberia
Latin America (MW) 24,524 23,903 21,960 621 2.6 Latin America
Chile (MW) 8,409 7,973 7,118 436 5.5 Chile
Argentina (MW) 4,419 4,419 4,419 - - Argentina
Colombia (MW) 3,711 3,589 3,592 122 3.4 Colombia
Peru (MW) 2,255 2,294 2,301 -39 -1.7 Peru
Brazil (MW) 5,071 4,981 3,922 90 1.8 Brazil
Uruguay (MW) - - - - - Uruguay
Costa Rica (MW) 81 81 81 - - Costa Rica
Guatemala (MW) 164 164 164 - - Guatemala
Panama (MW) 415 401 362 14 3.5 Panama
North America (MW) 9,532 7,941 6,643 1,591 20.0 North America
Europe (MW) 1,020 6,524 6,402 -5,504 -84.4 Europe
Africa, Asia and
Africa, Asia and Oceania (MW) 1,206 1,941 911 -735 -37.9
Oceania
Total net electrical capacity (MW) 84,578 87,058 83,967 -2,480 -2.8 Enel
Power generation plants
Thermoelectric plants(1) (no.) 63 69 71 -6 -8.7 Enel
Coal plants (no.) 7 8 10 -1 -12.5 Enel
CCGT plants (no.) 20 23 23 -3 -13.0 Enel
Oil/Gas plants (no.) 44 48 48 -4 -8.3 Enel
Nuclear plants (no.) 4 4 4 - - Enel
Renewable energy plants (no.) 1,233 1,187 1,173 46 3.9 Enel
Hydroelectric plants (no.) 765 739 748 26 3.5 Enel
Wind plants (no.) 266 266 262 - - Enel
Photovoltaic plants (no.) 161 141 122 20 14.2 Enel
Geothermal plants (no.) 39 39 39 - - Enel
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Biomass plants (no.) 2 2 2 - - Enel
OPERATING RESULTS
EU2 GENERATION
Net production by primary energy source
Thermal net production (GWh) 88,811 88,285 75,909 526 0.6 Enel
Coal (GWh) 19,722 13,858 13,155 5,864 42.3 Enel
CCGT (GWh) 54,436 51,718 43,353 2,718 5.3 Enel
Oil/Gas (GWh) 14,652 22,709 19,401 -8,057 -35.5 Enel
Nuclear net production (GWh) 26,508 25,504 25,839 1,004 3.9 Enel
Renewable net production (GWh) 112,448 108,817 105,360 3,631 3.3 Enel
Hydroelectric (GWh) 51,728 57,001 62,437 -5,273 -9.3 Enel
Wind (GWh) 43,255 37,791 30,992 5,464 14.5 Enel
Geothermal (GWh) 6,117 6,086 6,167 31 0.5 Enel
Biomass and cogeneration (GWh) 43 40 1 3 6.5 Enel
Photovoltaic (GWh) 11,306 7,899 5,763 3,407 43.1 Enel
Total net production (GWh) 227,767 222,605 207,108 5,162 2.3 Enel
Net production by geographic area
Italy (GWh) 48,460 47,964 42,495 496 1.0 Italy
Iberia (GWh) 64,715 57,592 56,269 7,123 12.4 Iberia
Latin America (GWh) 75,594 70,376 69,165 5,218 7.4 Latin America
Chile (GWh) 22,215 19,034 19,331 3,181 16.7 Chile
Argentina (GWh) 11,121 13,099 13,901 -1,978 -15.1 Argentina
Colombia (GWh) 13,663 13,241 14,146 422 3.2 Colombia
Peru (GWh) 9,615 9,585 8,774 30 0.3 Peru
Brazil (GWh) 16,608 12,713 10,713 3,895 30.6 Brazil
Uruguay (GWh) - - - - - Uruguay
Costa Rica (GWh) 216 198 213 18 9.3 Costa Rica
Guatemala (GWh) 659 548 518 111 20.2 Guatemala
Panama (GWh) 1,498 1,958 1,569 -460 -23.5 Panama
North America (GWh) 23,385 20,356 17,182 3,029 14.9 North America
Europe (GWh) 12,513 23,736 20,461 -11,223 -47.3 Europe
Africa, Asia and
Africa, Asia and Oceania (GWh) 3,099 2,580 1,537 519 20.1
Oceania
Total net production (GWh) 227,767 222,605 207,108 5,162 2.3 Enel
Development of renewables
New renewable power(2): (MW) 4,966 5,176 2,908 -210 -4.1 Enel
Hydroelectric (MW) 557 33 15 524 - Enel
Wind (MW) 1,827 2,596 2,086 -769 -29.6 Enel
Geothermal (MW) 17 33 4 -16 -48.0 Enel
Biomass and cogeneration (MW) - 1 - -1 -100.0 Enel
Photovoltaic (MW) 2,559 2,513 803 46 1.8 Enel
NETWORK
EU4 Total electricity distribution network (km) 2,024,038 2,233,368 2,232,022 -209,330 -9.4 Enel
Total high-voltage network (km) 40,566 46,860 46,661 -6,294 -13.4 Enel
- of which underground cable (km) 1,748 1,529 1,992 -1,289 -84.3 Enel
Total medium-voltage network (km) 717,992 891,221 894,343 -173,229 -19.4 Enel
- of which underground cable (km) 230,216 212,077 223,507 -204,925 -96.6 Enel
Total low-voltage network (km) 1,265,480 1,295,287 1,291,018 -29,807 -2.3 Enel
- of which underground cable (km) 410,142 387,314 413,636 -379,105 -97.9 Enel
Electricity distribution network by
EU4
geographic area
Total electricity distribution network Italy (km) 1,165,131 1,151,482 1,159,921 13,649 1.2 Italy
High-voltage network (km) 20 19 20 1 3.0 Italy
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
- of which underground cable (km) 3 3 11 -3 -100.0 Italy
Medium-voltage network (km) 361,775 348,699 357,860 13,076 3.7 Italy
- of which underground cable (km) 157,618 154,983 153,073 -154,983 -100.0 Italy
Low-voltage network (km) 803,336 802,764 802,041 572 0.1 Italy
- of which underground cable (km) 279,646 279,325 278,936 -279,325 -100.0 Italy
Total electricity distribution network
(km) 133,116 132,334 131,322 782 0.6 Romania
Romania
High-voltage network (km) 6,531 6,528 6,528 3 0.0 Romania
- of which underground cable (km) 315 311 312 -311 -100.0 Romania
Medium-voltage network (km) 36,094 35,931 35,630 163 0.5 Romania
- of which underground cable (km) 14,648 14,368 13,981 -14,368 -100.0 Romania
Low-voltage network (km) 90,491 89,874 89,164 617 0.7 Romania
- of which underground cable (km) 21,454 27,586 27,586 -27,586 -100.0 Romania
Total electricity distribution network Iberia (km) 317,829 316,506 315,365 1,323 0.4 Iberia
High-voltage network (km) 19,763 19,713 19,642 50 0.3 Iberia
- of which underground cable (km) 807 805 793 -805 -100.0 Iberia
Medium-voltage network (km) 114,673 114,336 114,003 337 0.3 Iberia
- of which underground cable (km) 41,747 41,362 41,033 -41,362 -100.0 Iberia
Low-voltage network (km) 183,393 182,457 181,720 936 0.5 Iberia
- of which underground cable (km) 87,430 86,639 86,024 -86,639 -100.0 Iberia
Total electricity distribution network Latin
(km) 407,962 633,047 625,415 -225,085 -35.6 Latin America
America
High-voltage network (km) 14,252 20,600 20,472 -6,348 -30.8 Latin America
- of which underground cable (km) 623 721 885 -481 -66.7 Latin America
Medium-voltage network (km) 205,450 392,255 386,850 -186,805 -47.6 Latin America
- of which underground cable (km) 16,202 15,732 15,420 -8,580 -54.5 Latin America
Low-voltage network (km) 188,260 220,192 218,093 -31,932 -14.5 Latin America
- of which underground cable (km) 21,612 21,350 21,090 -13,141 -61.6 Latin America
Lenght of transmission lines by geographic
area
Brazil (Enel CIEN SA) (km) 742 742 742 - - Brazil
Energy transported(3) (TWh) 507.7 510.6 485.2 -2.9 -0.6 Enel
SALES
Electricity volumes sold by market
Italy (GWh) 97,195 92,768 90,205 4,427 4.8 Italy
- of which free market (GWh) 78,334 65,577 59,900 12,757 19.5 Italy
- of which regulated market (GWh) 18,861 27,191 30,305 -8,330 -30.6 Italy
Iberia (GWh) 79,003 79,458 80,772 -455 -0.6 Iberia
- of which free market (GWh) 70,793 68,753 69,430 2,040 3.0 Iberia
- of which regulated market (GWh) 8,210 10,705 11,342 -2,495 -23.3 Iberia
Romania (GWh) 9,816.0 9,294 8,821 522 5.6 Romania
- of which free market (GWh) 9,809 9,036 7,178 773 8.6 Romania
- of which regulated market (GWh) 7 258 1,643 -251 -97.3 Romania
Latin America (GWh) 135,093.0 127,906 118,388 7,187 5.6 Latin America
- of which free market (GWh) 39,317 32,593 23,694 6,724 20.6 Latin America
- of which regulated market (GWh) 95,776 95,313 94,694 463 0.5 Latin America
Total volumes of energy sold (GWh) 321,107 309,425 298,186 11,682 3.8 Enel
- of which free market (GWh) 198,253 175,958 160,202 22,295 12.7 Enel
- of which regulated market (GWh) 122,854 133,467 137,984 -10,613 -8.0 Enel
Volumes sold gas (bn m3) 10.2 9.9 9.7 0.3 3.5 Enel
Italy (bn m3) 4.7 4.3 4.4 0.4 9.9 Italy
- mass market customers (bn m3) 3.2 2.9 2.9 0.3 8.9 Italy
- business customers (bn m3) 1.6 1.4 1.5 0.2 12.1 Italy
Iberia (bn m3) 4.9 5.2 5.0 -0.3 -5.6 Iberia
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Romania (bn m3) 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1 33.0 Romania
Latin America (bn m3) 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 71.0 Latin America
2-6 ECONOMIC RESULTS(4)
Revenues (mil euros) 140,517 85,719 66,004 54,798 63.9 Enel
Italy (mil euros) 83,508 45,417 32,203 38,091 83.9 Italy
Iberia (mil euros) 32,833 21,052 17,170 11,781 56.0 Iberia
Latin America (mil euros) 21,334 16,957 13,903 4,377 25.8 Latin America
Europe (mil euros) 87 14 2,085 73 - Europe
North America (mil euros) 2,214 1,513 1,367 701 46.3 North America
Africa, Asia and
Africa, Asia and Oceania (mil euros) 266 241 153 25 10.4
Oceania
Other,
Other, eliminations and adjustments (mil euros) 275 525 -877 -250 -47.6 eliminations and
adjustments
EBITDA (mil euros) 19,918 17,567 16,903 2,351 13.4 Enel
Italy (mil euros) 6,307 6,633 7,824 -326 -4.9 Italy
Iberia (mil euros) 5,230 4,183 3,775 1,047 25.0 Iberia
Latin America (mil euros) 6,579 4,143 4,150 2,436 58.8 Latin America
Europe (mil euros) 27 -5 509 32 - Europe
North America (mil euros) 940 684 778 256 37.4 North America
Africa, Asia and
Africa, Asia and Oceania (mil euros) 83 110 55 -27 -24.5
Oceania
Other,
Other, eliminations and adjustments (mil euros) 752 1,485 -188 -733 -49.4 eliminations and
adjustments
Italy (%) 31.7 38.5 46.3 -6.8 - Italy
Iberia (%) 26.3 24.3 22.3 2.0 - Iberia
Latin America (%) 33.0 24.0 24.6 9.0 - Latin America
Europe (%) 0.1 0.0 3.0 0.1 - Europe
North America (%) 4.7 4.0 4.6 0.7 - North America
Africa, Asia and
Africa, Asia and Oceania (%) 0.4 0.6 0.3 -0.2 -
Oceania
Other,
Other, eliminations and adjustments (%) 3.8 8.6 -1.1 -4.8 - eliminations and
adjustments
EBIT (mil euros) 8,741 5,378 5,463 3,363 62.5 Enel
Group net income (mil euros) 5,218 3,758 3,622 1,460 38.9 Enel
Value generated and distributed for
stakeholders(4)
Economic value generated directly:
Revenues (mil euros) 140,821 85,865 66,100 54,956 64.0 Enel
Economic value distributed: (mil euros) 131,748 78,684 57,932 53,064 67.4 Enel
Operating costs (mil euros) 114,384 62,063 42,634 52,321 84.3 Enel
Personnel and benefit cost (mil euros) 3,646 4,296 3,956 -650 -15.1 Enel
Payment to lenders of capital (shareholders
(mil euros) 7,691 7,409 7,082 282 3.8 Enel
and lenders)(5)
Payments to governments (mil euros) 6,027 4,916 4,260 1,111 22.6 Enel
Economic value generated (mil euros) 9,073 7,181 8,168 1,892 26.3 Enel
Investments
Investments(6) (mil euros) 14,347 12,997 10,197 1,350 10.4 Enel
Italy (mil euros) 4,640 3,842 2,842 798 20.8 Italy
Iberia (mil euros) 2,316 2,202 1,638 114 5.2 Iberia
Latin America (mil euros) 4,289 3,772 2,859 517 13.7 Latin America
Europe (mil euros) 224 456 411 -232 -50.9 Europe
North America (mil euros) 2,491 2,293 1,816 198 8.6 North America
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Africa, Asia and
Africa, Asia and Oceania (mil euros) 164 217 417 -53 -24.4
Oceania
Total Abroad (mil euros) 9,484 8,890 7,142 594 6.7 Total Abroad
Adjustments (mil euros) 223 265 213 -42 -15.8 Enel
(1) In some thermal plants, multiple technology units are present.
(2) New renewable power, excluding disposals and changes in scope, mainly in North, Central and South America.
(3) The distributed electricity figure for 2021 takes into account a more precise determination of the quantities transported.
(4) The figures for 2021 have been restated, for comparative purposes only, to take into account the classification under “Net income from discontinued oper-
ations” of the results pertaining to the assets held in Russia (sold in Q4 2022), Romania and Greece, as the requirements of IFRS 5 for their classification as
“discontinued operations” have been met.
(5) The amount includes the “Total Tax Borne”, which represents the costs for the taxes paid by the Group. The 2021 figures include a more specific determination.
(6) The data refers only to continuing operations and therefore do not include the figures for ‘assets held for sale’.
Zero emissions ambition,
Conservation of natural capital
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
EMISSIONS
305-1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1)
CO emissions from the electricity
2 (mil t) 51.93 50.56 44.67 1.37 2.7 Enel
production and heat
Other CO emissions due to
2eq
electricity production and other (mil tCO ) 1.14 1.01 0.90 0.13 12.9 Enel
2eq
activities(1)
Total direct emissions (Scope 1) (mil tCO ) 53.07 51.57 45.57 1.50 2.9 Enel
2eq
305-2 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2)
Purchased electricity from the grid((2)
- location based (mil tCO ) 0.76 0.81 0.79 -0.05 -6.2 Enel
2eq
- market based (mil tCO ) 1.20 1.35 1.30 -0.15 -11.1 Enel
2eq
Distribution and transmission
system: energy losses(3)
- location based (mil tCO ) 3.26 2.97 2.77 0.29 9.8 Enel
2eq
- market based (mil tCO ) 4.86 4.76 4.68 0.10 2.1 Enel
2eq
Total Scope 2
- location based (mil tCO ) 4.02 3.77 3.56 0.25 6.6 Enel
2eq
- market based (mil tCO ) 6.06 6.11 5.98 -0.05 -0.8 Enel
2eq
Other indirect greenhouse
305-3
emissions (Scope 3)(4)
Supply chain (category 1)(5) (mil tCO ) 14.18 12.99 11.00 1.19 9.2 Enel
2eq
Coal mining (category 3) (mil tCO ) 1.53 1.07 1.06 0.46 43.0 Enel
2eq
Transport of coal by sea (category 3) (mil tCO ) 0.35 0.17 0.10 0.18 - Enel
2eq
Extraction and trasport of gas (category 3) (mil tCO ) 8.42 10.01 9.13 -1.59 -15.9 Enel
2eq
Transport of other fuels (gas oil, biomass,
(mil tCO ) 0.01 0.01 0.01 - - Enel
WDF) (category 3) 2eq
Purchase of electricity for selling to end
(mil tCO ) 28.40 23.96 23.19 4.44 18.5 Enel
client (category 3) 2eq
Transport of raw materials and waste
(mil tCO ) 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.01 - Enel
(category 4) 2eq
Use of gas sold to end client (category 11) (mil tCO ) 22.90 22.25 21.95 0.65 2.9 Enel
2eq
Total indirect emissions (Scope 3) (mil tCO ) 75.80 70.46 66.45 5.34 7.6 Enel
2eq
305-4 Specific emissions
(gCO /
Intensity of GHG Scope 1 emissions(6) 2eq 233 229 218 4 1.7 Enel
kWh)
Intensity of CO emissions related to energy
2 (gCO/kWh) 225 222 211 3 1.4 Enel
production(7) 2
Intensity of GHG Scope 1 emissions related (gCO /
2eq 229 225 214 4 1.8 Enel
to energy production (SBTi)(8) kWh)
Intensity of GHG Scope 1 and 3 emissions (gCO /
2eq 218 203 194 15 7.4 Enel
related to Integrated Power (SBTi)(9) kWh)
305-5 Avoided emissions(10) (mil t) 81.6 72.8 74.8 8.80 12.1 Enel
305-7 Other atmospheric emissions(11)
SO emissions (t) 16,602 15,615 20,547 987 6.3 Enel
2
NO emissions (t) 74,225 78,846 76,256 -4,621 -5.9 Enel
x
Dust emissions (t) 1,227 1,099 1,243 128 11.6 Enel
HS emissions (t) 5,226 4,772 4,972 454 9.5 Enel
2
Hg emissions (thermal and coal) (t) 0.08 0.05 0.05 0.03 60.0 Enel
Specific emissions
SO emissions (g/kWh) 0.07 0.07 0.10 - - Enel
2
NO emissions (g/kWh) 0.32 0.35 0.36 -0.03 -8.6 Enel
x
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Dust emissions (g/kWh) 0.005 0.005 0.010 - - Enel
Ozone Depleting Substances
305-6
emissions
Total (kgCFC-11 ) 43 180 22 -137 -76.1 Enel
eq
Compliance with environmental laws and
2-27
regulations(12)
Instances of non-compliance for which
monetary and non-monetary sanctions (no.) 92 n.d. n.d. - - Enel
were incurred
Instances of non-compliance for which non-
(no.) 22 n.d. n.d. - - Enel
monetary sanctions were incurred
Instances of non-compliance for which
(no.) 70 n.d. n.d. - - Enel
monetary sanctions were incurred
Fines for instances of non-compliance with
laws and regulations occurred in the current (mil euros) 0.01 n.d. n.d. - - Enel
reporting period
Fines for instances of non-compliance
with laws and regulations occurred in the (mil euros) 0.15 n.d. n.d. - - Enel
previous reporting periods
Environmental disputes
Environmental proceedings as defendant (no.) 168 243 255 -75 -30.9 Enel
Monetary value (mil euros) 1.80 5.00 84.71 -3.20 -64.0 Enel
ENERGY CONSUMPTION
Fuel consumption by primary
302-1
source in TJ
from non-renewable sources (TJ) 1,053,083 1,044,714 949,152 8,369 0.8 Enel
Coal (TJ) 206,450 141,528 138,380 64,922 45.9 Enel
Lignite (TJ) - - 1,353 - - Enel
Fuel oil (TJ) 35,848 34,787 39,320 1,061 3.0 Enel
Natural gas (TJ) 469,425 549,312 457,020 -79,887 -14.5 Enel
Gas oil (TJ) 58,486 48,482 39,234 10,004 20.6 Enel
Uranium (TJ) 282,872 270,605 273,845 12,267 4.5 Enel
from renewable resources (TJ) 54,987 54,588 55,440 399 0.7 Enel
Biomass, biogas and waste (TJ) 1,044 1,136 1,936 -92 -8.1 Enel
Geothermal fluid (TJ) 53,943 53,452 53,504 491 0.9 Enel
Total direct consumption (TJ) 1,108,069 1,099,302 1,004,592 8,767 0.8 Enel
Fuel consumption by in Mtoe
from non-renewable sources (Mtep) 25.2 25.0 22.5 0.2 0.8 Enel
Coal (Mtep) 4.9 3.4 3.3 1.5 44.1 Enel
Lignite (Mtep) - - 0.03 - - Enel
Fuel oil (Mtep) 0.9 0.8 0.9 0.1 12.5 Enel
Natural gas (Mtep) 11.2 13.1 10.9 -1.9 -14.5 Enel
Gas oil (Mtep) 1.4 1.2 0.9 0.2 16.7 Enel
Uranium (Mtep) 6.8 6.5 6.5 0.3 4.6 Enel
from renewable resources (Mtep) 1.3 1.3 1.4 - - Enel
Biomass, biogas and waste (Mtep) 0.02 0.03 0.05 -0.01 -33.3 Enel
Geothermal fluid (Mtep) 1.3 1.3 1.3 - - Enel
Total direct consumption (Mtep) 26.5 26.3 23.9 0.2 0.8 Enel
Incidence of fuel consumption
from non-renewable sources
Coal (%) 19.6 11.2 14.6 8.4 - Enel
Lignite (%) - - 0.1 - - Enel
Fuel oil (%) 3.4 2.8 4.1 0.6 - Enel
Natural gas (%) 44.6 43.5 48.2 1.1 - Enel
Gas oil (%) 5.6 3.8 4.1 1.8 - Enel
Uranium (%) 26.9 21.4 28.9 5.5 - Enel
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Indirect energy consumption by
302-1
destination
Total energy consumption (TJ) 11,620 23,878 23,145 -12,258 -51.3 Enel
RAW MATERIALS
Resources used in the production
process
301-1 Consumables
Lime (,000 t) 110.7 61.9 83.9 -22.0 -35.5 Enel
Ammonia (,000 t) 37.0 20.4 16.1 16.6 81.4 Enel
Caustic soda (,000 t) 47.4 65.0 76.9 -17.6 -27.1 Enel
Slaked lime (,000 t) 4.6 3.3 3.8 1.3 39.4 Enel
Sulfuric/chloride acid (,000 t) 7.3 8.7 7.5 -1.4 -16.1 Enel
Other (,000 t) 34.7 26.8 17.6 7.9 29.5 Enel
Total (,000 t) 241.8 186.2 205.8 55.6 29.9 Enel
Percentage of materials used that
301-2
derive from recycled material
compared to total consumption of each
resource
Lubricant oil (%) 3.2 11.9 3.8 -8.7 - Enel
Dielectric oil (%) 53.8 67.0 28.6 -13.2 - Enel
Paper for printing (%) 3.4 2.2 76.0 1.2 - Enel
WATER
Water withdrawal used by
production process
By thermoelectric production (,000 ML ) 56.5 52.8 49.1 3.7 7.1 Enel
By nuclear production (,000 ML ) 19.0 19.6 19.2 -0.6 -3.3 Enel
By other industrial uses (,000 ML ) 0.5 0.7 0.7 -0.2 -31.7 Enel
Total water withdrawal (,000 ML ) 76.0 73.1 69.1 2.9 3.9 Enel
Water requirements by production
(l/kWh ) 0.27 0.29 0.29 -0.02 -6.9 Enel
process(13) eq
303-3 Water withdrawal by source
Withdrawal from scarce source(14) (,000 ML ) 53.7 56.4 54.4 -2.7 -4.8 Enel
Surface water (wetlands, lakes,
(,000 ML ) 37.9 40.5 39.8 -2.6 -6.5 Enel
rivers) total
- freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved
(,000 ML ) 37.3 40.3 39.5 -3.0 -7.5 Enel
Solids)
-o ther water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved
(,000 ML ) 0.6 0.2 0.3 0.4 - Enel
Solids)
Ground water (from wells) total (,000 ML ) 9.5 9.9 9.0 -0.4 -3.8 Enel
- freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved
(,000 ML ) 9.4 9.9 9.0 -0.5 -5.1 Enel
Solids)
-o ther water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved
(,000 ML ) 0.1 0.0 - 0.1 - Enel
Solids)
Water from aqueduct total (,000 ML ) 6.3 6.0 5.7 0.3 4.2 Enel
- freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved
(,000 ML ) 6.0 5.3 4.8 0.7 12.7 Enel
Solids)
- other water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved
(,000 ML ) 0.3 0.7 0.9 -0.4 -58.1 Enel
Solids)
Withdrawal from non scarce source: (,000 ML ) 22.3 16.7 14.6 5.6 33.4 Enel
Sea water (used as is and dissalated) (,000 ML ) 22.2 16.6 14.5 5.5 33.2 Enel
- freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved
(,000 ML ) 5.7 5.0 0.0 0.7 13.6 Enel
Solids)
- other water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved
(,000 ML ) 16.5 11.6 14.5 4.8 41.6 Enel
Solids)
from produced water (amount used inside
(,000 ML ) 0.1 0.1 0.1 - - Enel
plants)
Total withdrawal(14) (,000 ML ) 76.0 73.1 69.1 2.9 3.9 Enel
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Percentage of recycled and reused water (%) 9.4 8.3 8.2 1.1 13.3 Enel
Water used for once through cooling
system
Total (,000 ML ) 13,651.7 14,956.3 14,403.8 -1,304.6 -8.7 Enel
from surface water (,000 ML ) 4,782.6 6,213.0 5,281.3 -1,430.4 -23.0 Enel
from sea water (,000 ML ) 8,869.2 8,743.3 9,122.5 125.9 1.4 Enel
Total withdrawals (,000 ML ) 13,727.7 15,011.9 14,455.3 -1,284.2 -8.6 Enel
Water withdrawal by source in
303-3
“water stressed” areas(15)
Withdrawal from scarce source (,000 ML ) 12.7 15.5 12.7 -2.8 -17.8 Enel
Surface water (wetlands, lakes, rivers) total (,000 ML ) 5.8 8.5 7.0 -2.7 -31.6 Enel
- freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved
(,000 ML ) 5.7 8.5 7.0 -2.8 -32.5 Enel
Solids)
- other water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved
(,000 ML ) 0.1 - - - - Enel
Solids)
Ground water (from wells) total (,000 ML ) 5.8 6.4 4.9 -0.6 -9.7 Enel
- freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved
(,000 ML ) 5.8 6.4 4.9 -0.6 -9.7 Enel
Solids)
- other water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved
(,000 ML ) - - - - - Enel
Solids)
Water from aqueduct total (,000 ML ) 1.1 0.6 0.8 0.5 77.3 Enel
- freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved
(,000 ML ) 0.8 0.4 0.5 0.4 - Enel
Solids)
- other water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved
(,000 ML ) 0.3 0.3 0.3 - - Enel
Solids)
Withdrawal from non scarce source: (,000 ML ) 1.9 1.3 0.8 0.6 43.6 Enel
Sea water (used as is and dissalated) (,000 ML ) 1.9 1.3 0.8 0.6 43.6 Enel
- freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved
(,000 ML ) 0.9 0.8 - 0.1 - Enel
Solids)
- other water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved
(,000 ML ) 1.0 0.5 0.8 0.5 - Enel
Solids)
from produced water (amount used inside
(,000 ML ) - - - - - Enel
plants)
Total (,000 ML ) 14.6 16.8 13.5 -2.2 -12.9 Enel
303-4 WATER DISCHARGE
Water discharge by destination (,000 ML ) 13,682.4 14,968.0 14,433.7 -1,285.6 -8.6 Enel
Surface water (wetlands, lakes, rivers) (,000 ML ) 4,785.5 6,189.1 5,275.1 -1,403.7 -22.7 Enel
Groundwater (,000 ML ) - - 1.1 - - Enel
Water in municipal/industrial treatment
(,000 ML ) 3.0 6.4 8.6 -3.4 -53.5 Enel
plants
Third party water (,000 ML ) 79.6 89.0 89.0 -9.5 -10.6 Enel
Seawater (,000 ML ) 8,814.5 8,683.5 9,059.9 131.0 1.5 Enel
303-5 Water consumptions (,000 ML ) 45.2 43.8 37.9 1.4 3.2 Enel
Consumption in water stresse areas(15) (,000 ML ) 9.3 10.5 8.3 -1.2 -11.8 Enel
306-3 WASTE PRODUCED
Non-hazardous waste(16) (t) 3,300,765 3,008,536 2,268,859 292,229 9.7 Enel
Hazardous waste (t) 55,940 64,365 51,816 -8,425 -13.1 Enel
Total waste produced(16) (t) 3,356,705 3,072,901 2,320,675 283,804 9.2 Enel
of which: ash and gypsum (t) 1,129,818 744,203 801,726 385,615 51.8 Enel
of which: oils (t) 5,273 5,495 8,904 -222 -4.0 Enel
of which: costruction and demolition
(t) 1,063,564 1,052,701 627,192 10,863 1.0 Enel
waste(16)
Total waste sent for recovery(16) (%) 84.39 85.30 82.50 -0.9 - Enel
Hazardous waste by disposal
306-3
method(16)
Recycled or sent for recovery (t) 21,960 38,418 25,183 -16,458 -42.8 Enel
Landfill (t) 5,270 7,972 9,348 -2,702 -33.9 Enel
Incineration with energy recovery (t) 853 684 1,632 169 24.7 Enel
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Incineration without energy recovery (t) 451 752 462 -301 -40.0 Enel
Other disposal methods (t) 27,406 16,539 15,191 10,867 65.7 Enel
Total (t) 55,940 64,365 51,816 -8,425 -13.1 Enel
Non-hazardous waste by disposal
method(16)
Recovery (including energy recovery) (t) 2,810,895 2,622,376 1,932,360 188,519 7.2 Enel
Landfill (t) 417,728 386,160 336,499 31,568 8.2 Enel
Incineration with energy recovery (t) 572 551 459 21 3.8 Enel
Incineration without energy recovery (t) 16 103 108 -87 -84.5 Enel
Other disposal methods (t) 71,555 39,717 41,532 31,838 80.2 Enel
Total (t) 3,300,765 3,008,536 2,268,859 292,229 9.7 Enel
Mitigation of the impact on the
landscape/territory(17)
LV/MV cabling ratio (%) 60.7 60.5 60.4 0.2 - Enel
LV cabling ratio (%) 82.9 82.9 82.4 - - Enel
MV cabling ratio (%) 30.1 29.3 29.4 0.8 - Enel
Assessment of the biodiversity projects
impacts
Number of sites used for operational activities (no.) 1,324 1,283 1,258 41 3.2 Enel
Total area used for operational activities (ha) 47,872 34,935 43,958 12,937 37.0 Enel
Assessment: sites in which it has been
conducted biodiversity impact assessments
in the past five years
Number of sites (no.) 1,324 1,283 1,258 41 3.2 Enel
Hectares (ha) 47,872 34,935 43,958 12,937 37.0 Enel
Exposure: sites with biodiversity impact
assessment in close proximity to critical
biodiversity, and total area of these sites
Number of sites (no.) 33 29 20 4 13.8 Enel
Hectares (ha) 808 466 336 342 73.4 Enel
Management Plans: sites with biodiversity
impact assessment and located in close
proximity to critical areas that have a
biodiversity management plan, and total are
of these sites
Number of sites (no.) 33 29 20 4 13.8 Enel
Hectares (ha) 808 466 336 342 73.4 Enel
(1) This share includes: CO emissions from the use of diesel in auxiliary engines; CH leak emissions from gas-fired power plants; NO and CH as a result of the
2 4 2 4
combustion of fossil fuels; NF, SF and refrigerant gases expressed as CO equivalent. This share also includes biogenic emissions from hydroelectric basins.
3 6 2
The 2020 data has been redetermined following a refinement of the methodology.
(2) “Scope 2” – Emissions from energy taken from the grid: indirect CO emissions due to the consumption of electricity for moving fuel, electricity distribution,
2
property management and electricity purchased from the grid by energy generation plants are calculated as the product of the electricity consumption mul-
tiplied by the respective weighted specific CO emission coefficients of the whole generation mix of the countries where the Enel Group operates (source:
2
Enerdata - https://www.enerdata.net/ for location-based calculation and https://www.aib-net.org/facts/european-residual-mix for market-based calculation).
Scope 2 is calculated according to the “location based” method (based on the company’s location). It is the result of the calculation of greenhouse gas emis-
sions resulting from electricity generation in the area where the consumption takes place. Scope 2 is calculated according to the “market based” method
(based on the market where the company operates). For companies operating in European countries, the reference market is the European one (EU). In the
event of supply of energy from renewable sources, the electricity’s origin must be certified by “contractual instruments that meet the minimum quality criteria”.
In Europe, the only way to prove the electricity’s origin is the Guarantees of Origin. Companies that use electricity whose origin is not certified by these Guar-
antees must perform the calculation by referring to the emissions associated with the residual mix (source: Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, 2015).
The 2021 and 2020 values were redetermined following a methodological change to the calculation of the indirect emissions (Scope 2) related to the pumping
of water for energy generation, in line with the new SBTi certification.
(3) “Scope 2” – Emissions from energy losses from the network grid: with its business, the Group covers the entire generation and sales chain in Europe (Italy and
Spain) and in five South American countries (Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Chile and Peru). To calculate emissions, it has been assumed that the vertical chain
of activities takes place within the country. The emissions caused by the losses were calculated based on the part of energy fed into the grid that exceeds the
share produced in the country in question, so as to avoid any double counting of emissions already included in Scope 1. The emissions are calculated according
to the dual location and market based view.
(4) “Scope 3”:
- Indirect CO emissions for the freighting of coal by sea is estimated on the basis of the actual routes taken by the ships. Since 2020, the estimate of the share
2
of emissions for rail freight has no longer been reported as this form of transport is no longer used.
- Indirect CO emissions from the transportation of consumable materials, fuel oil, diesel, solid biomass, WDF and waste are estimated based on the quantities
2
of raw materials transported, taking into consideration trucks with a capacity of 28 tons, which cover average (round trip) distances of 75 km with a consump-
tion of 1 liter of diesel for every 3 km travelled and an emission coefficient of 3 kg of CO for each liter of diesel consumed.
2
- The figure for emissions from coal mining is a rough estimate of the fugitive methane emissions (CH) from coal imported and used by the Enel Group for
4
thermoelectric generation.
- I n terms of the use of the gas sold by end customers, the figure for emissions from the combustion of natural gas is calculated based on the energy amount
(TWh) of gas sold multiplied by its emission factor (source: IPCC for CO, NO e CH).
2 2 4
- To calculate emissions related to electricity purchased for sale to end customers, it has been assumed that the vertical chain of activities takes place within the
country. The emissions of the share sold and produced by the company have not been included in the calculation since they already fall under Scope 1. The
share for the fraction sold but not produced by country was calculated according to a new calculation methodology by multiplying the energy amount by the
specific country-level emission (source: Enerdata). Emissions from network losses are not included in the calculation since they are reported under Scope 2.
- The emissions from the extraction and transport of natural gas consider the share of gas both used in thermal power plants and sold in the retail market.
- The emissions from the supply chain consider an intensive value equal to: 889, 968, 969 tCO /M€ spent in 2022, 2021, 2020 respectively. The estimate of
2eq
emissions for the 3 years is based on the average value of the Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) or ISO CFP 14067 certifications received in the three-
year period 20-21-22 for more than 60% of the supplies purchased. The remainder was estimated using international databases (Ecoinvent/Exiobase). Emis-
sions from works have been estimated based on data from sustainable construction sites and emissions of services have been estimated using international
databases.
(5) The 2021 and 2020 values have been redetermined following a change in the methodology.
(6) The specific emissions were calculated considering total direct emissions (Scope 1) in relation to total renewable, nuclear and thermoelectric generation, in-
cluding the contribution of heat and excluding pumped storage generation. The 2021 figures include a more specific determination thereof.
(7) The specific emissions were calculated considering total direct emissions of CO in relation to total renewable, nuclear and thermoelectric generation, including
2
the contribution of heat and the pumped storage energy generation.
(8) KPI corresponding to the new target certified by SBTi in 2022. The specific emissions were calculated considering total direct emissions (Scope 1) related to the
generation of electricity (including CO, CH, NO), in relation to total renewable, nuclear and thermoelectric generation, including the contribution of heat and
2 4 2
excluding pumped storage generation.
(9) KPI corresponding to the new target certified by SBTi in 2022. The specific emissions are calculated considering the combination of total direct emissions
(Scope 1) related to electricity generation (including CO, CH, NO) and the Group's direct GHG emissions (Scope 3) deriving from the generation of electricity
2 4 2
purchased and sold to end customers, in relation to total renewable, nuclear and thermoelectric generation, including the contribution of heat and excluding
pumped storage generation, and to total purchased electricity.
(10) Avoided Group emissions are calculated as the sum of the avoided emissions in the various countries. The value is calculated as the product of the generation
of electricity obtained from a renewable or nuclear source and the specific CO emissions from the thermoelectric generation of the country in which Enel is
2
present (source: Enerdata, http://enerdata.net).
(11) Mercury emissions in 2021 amounted to 75 kg, associated with thermoelectric generation for Italy, Spain, Russia and Chile, which account for almost 100% of
coal-fired thermoelectric generation throughout the Group. This is in addition to the mercury emissions from the geothermal sector, amounting to 394 kg. In
Europe, mercury emissions are declared to the competent authorities for registration in the European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (E-PRTR) in ac-
cordance with EU Regulation No 166/2006 and are subject to the relevant checks in terms of completeness, consistency and credibility (Article 2 of Regulation
No 166/2006).
(12) After implementing the new reporting criteria, the value of the indicator is available starting with 2022 reporting.
(13) Specific water needs are constituted by all the water withdrawal quotas from surface (including recovered rain water) and groundwater sources, by third par-
ties, from the sea and from wastewater (quota for third party procurements) used for processes and for closed-cycle cooling, except the quota of seawater
discharged back into sea after the desalination process (brine). This latter item (brine) contributes to the quota of total withdrawals.
(14) The total value of process and closed-loop cooling water withdrawals for years 2020 and 2021 was recalculated following the refinement conducted in 2022 of
the way in which water withdrawn for cooling purposes at certain nuclear power plants in Spain was calculated.
(15) GRI 303 has defined as “water stressed” areas those in which, on the basis of the classification provided by the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, the ratio be-
tween the total annual withdrawal of surface water or groundwater for different uses (civil, industrial, agricultural and livestock) and the total annual renewable
water supply available (“base water stress”, understood, therefore, as the level of competition between all users) is high (40-80%) or extremely high (>80%).
This category also includes the thermal plants that use “fresh water”. By way of greater environmental protection, Enel has also considered as located in water
stressed areas those plants falling in zones classified by the WRI as “arid”. The value for years 2020 and 2021 was recalculated following the refinement con-
ducted in 2022 of the way in which water withdrawn for cooling purposes at certain nuclear power plants in Spain was calculated.
(16) The quantity of waste produced by the O&M activities during 2021 and 2020 was recalculated in line with the new 2022 reporting objective, extending it also to
the O&M waste produced by contractors who, working on behalf of Enel, generate waste that they manage under the own responsibility as a producer. Waste
by significant geographical area is reported below:
December December December
KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Hazardous waste by significant
geographical areas
Italy (t) 29,061 29,306 28,116 -245 -0.8 Italy
Iberia (t) 13,857 11,786 11,116 2,071 17.6 Iberia
South America (t) 9,089 13,777 7,218 -4,688 -34.0 South America
- Chile (t) 1,093 741 408 352 47.5 Chile
- Argentina (t) 1,111 2,106 1,307 -995 -47.2 Argentina
- Colombia (t) 1,231 1,364 878 -133 -9.8 Colombia
- Peru (t) 1,142 905 741 237 26.2 Peru
- Brazil (t) 4,500 8,658 3,884 -4,158 -48.0 Brazil
- other (t) 12 3 - - - Other
Europe (t) 3,733 9,254 5,225 -5,521 -59.7 Europe
Russia (t) 1,924 7,368 2,660 -5,444 -73.9 Russia
Romania (t) 1,802 1,859 2,550 -57 -3.1 Romania
Greece (t) 7 27 14 -20 -74.1 Greece
Bulgaria (t) - - 1 - - Bulgaria
Other (t) 199 243 - - - Other
Non-hazardous waste by significant
geographical areas
Italy(15) (t) 2,735,469 2,445,104 1,657,160 290,365 11.9 Italy
Iberia(15) (t) 201,380 220,506 315,963 -19,126 -8.7 Iberia
South America (t) 357,387 327,563 279,854 29,824 9.1 South America
- Chile (t) 97,520 120,645 138,464 -23,125 -19.2 Chile
- Argentina (t) 2,793 2,629 11,119 164 6.2 Argentina
- Colombia (t) 100,705 98,182 6,668 2,523 2.6 Colombia
- Peru (t) 30,039 19,397 33,016 10,642 54.9 Peru
- Brazil (t) 126,165 86,520 90,588 39,645 45.8 Brazil
- other (t) 165 189 - -24 -12.7 Other
Europe (t) 6,140 14,969 15,567 -8,829 -59.0 Europe
Russia (t) 1,365 9,828 11,121 -8,463 -86.1 Russia
Romania (t) 4,775 5,134 4,440 -359 -7.0 Romania
Greece (t) - 6 2 -6 -100.0 Greece
Bulgaria (t) - - 3 - - Bulgaria
Other (t) 389 393 - - - Other
(17) The cabling ratio is calculated by proportioning the km of cabled lines (both underground and aerial insulated cables) to the total km of lines. The increase in
the cabling ratio over the years is due to a general increase, in terms of length, of aerial and underground cable sections at the expense of the bare conduc-
tor line. The number of sites does not include nuclear plants. The hectares reported do not include hydroelectric basins. The impact assessment considered
the active basins in terms of biodiversity. Compared with last year, KPI mapping and calculation tools were refined, which led to a slight change in the figure
compared to 2021.
(18) The number of sites does not include nuclear plants. Hectars reported do not include hydroelectric reservoirs. For the assessment of the impact, the active
projects on biodiversity have been considered. Compared to last year, the KPI mapping and calculation tools have been refined, which led to a slight change
in the figure compared to 2021.
Clean electrification
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
EU3 CUSTOMERS
Electricity market (Final number of
customers)
Customers Italy (no.) 21,382,665 21,824,404 22,612,004 -441,739 -2.0 Italy
Free market (no.) 11,879,742 10,200,185 9,478,660 1,679,557 16.5 Italy
Regulated market (no.) 9,502,923 11,624,219 13,133,344 -2,121,296 -18.2 Italy
Customers Iberia (no.) 10,545,281 10,250,657 10,420,495 294,624 2.9 Iberia
Free market (no.) 6,829,138 5,877,494 5,654,659 951,644 16.2 Iberia
Regulated market (no.) 3,716,143 4,373,163 4,765,836 -657,020 -15.0 Iberia
Customers Latin America (no.) 25,392,600 28,253,787 27,642,485 -2,861,187 -10.1 Latin America
Free market (no.) 6,871 6,571 5,047 300 4.6 Latin America
Regulated market (no.) 25,385,729 28,247,216 27,637,438 -2,861,487 -10.1 Latin America
Customers Latin America -
(no.) 2,600,926 2,548,983 2,507,652 51,943 2.0 Argentina
Argentina
Free market (no.) - - - - - Argentina
Regulated market (no.) 2,600,926 2,548,983 2,507,652 51,943 2.0 Argentina
Customers Latin America - Brazil (no.) 15,389,166 18,472,098 18,063,146 -3,082,932 -16.7 Brazil
Free market (no.) 3,173 2,586 1,488 - - Brazil
Regulated market (no.) 15,385,993 18,469,512 18,061,658 -3,083,519 -16.7 Brazil
Customers Latin America - Chile (no.) 2,081,420 2,039,783 2,008,812 41,637 2.0 Chile
Free market (no.) 1,782 1,969 1,567 - - Chile
Regulated market (no.) 2,079,638 2,037,814 2,007,245 41,824 2.1 Chile
Customers Latin America -
(no.) 3,790,236 3,704,919 3,611,245 85,317 2.3 Colombia
Colombia
Free market (no.) 1,221 1,325 1,295 - - Colombia
Regulated market (no.) 3,789,015 3,703,594 3,609,950 85,421 2.3 Colombia
Customers Latin America - Peru (no.) 1,530,852 1,488,004 1,451,630 42,848 2.9 Peru
Free market (no.) 695 691 697 4 0.6 Peru
Regulated market (no.) 1,530,157 1,487,313 1,450,933 42,844 2.9 Peru
Customers Romania (no.) 2,905,352 3,044,844 3,049,476 -139,492 -4.6 Romania
Free market (no.) 2,902,732 3,018,759 2,233,037 -116,027 -3.8 Romania
Regulated market (no.) 2,620 26,085 816,439 -23,465 -90.0 Romania
Total Customers Enel (no.) 60,225,898 63,373,692 63,724,460 -3,147,794 -5.0 Enel
Total Free market (no.) 21,618,483 19,103,009 17,371,403 2,515,474 13.2 Enel
Regulated market (no.) 38,607,415 44,270,683 46,353,057 -5,663,268 -12.8 Enel
Gas market (Final number of
customers)
Customers Italy (no.) 4,581,245 4,165,317 4,060,646 415,928 10.0 Italy
Customers Spain (no.) 1,798,737 1,684,369 1,673,424 114,368 6.8 Iberia
Customers Romania (no.) 178,993 119,415 59,379 59,578 49.9 Romania
Customers Chile (no.) 9 8 8 - - Chile
Customers Colombia (no.) 13 17 15 -4 -23.5 Colombia
Total customers gas market (no.) 6,558,997 5,969,126 5,793,472 589,871 9.9 Enel
Total customers Enel electricity
(no.) 66,784,895 69,342,818 69,517,932 -2,557,923 -3.7 Enel
and gas
PUBLIC LIGHTING
Customers public lighting (no.) 2,619 2,792 3,006 -173 -6.2 Italy
Light sources public lighting (,000) 3,023 2,821 2,724 202 7.2 Italy
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
ENERGY AVAILABILITY AND
RELIABILITY
Efficiency thermoelectric
EU11
generation(1)
Average thermoelectric
generation yield without heat (%) 42.4 41.7 41.2 0.7 - Enel
component
Average thermoelectric
(%) 42.8 42.9 42.4 -0.1 - Enel
generation yield with heat
Average yield by technology
without heat component
Yield coal plants (%) 33.2 32.6 32.1 0.6 - Enel
Yield oil/gas plants (%) 34.4 35.0 34.3 -0.6 - Enel
Yield CCGT plants (%) 50.4 49.7 49.9 0.7 - Enel
Average yield with heat
component by technology
Yield coal plants (%) 33.2 32.6 32.1 0.6 - Enel
Yield oil/gas plants (%) 36.6 38.6 38.3 -2.0 - Enel
Yield CCGT plants (%) 50.5 49.9 50.1 0.6 - Enel
Availability of thermoelectric
EU30 (%) 82.4 86.4 88.4 -4.0 - Enel
generation(1)
Availability of thermoelectric
generation by source
Availability coal plants (%) 67.7 78.4 84.9 -10.7 - Enel
Availability oil/gas plants (%) 81.5 88.5 90.4 -7.0 - Enel
Availability CCGT plants (%) 88.3 88.8 89.2 -0.5 - Enel
Availability of thermoelectric
generation by regulatory regime
Regulated (%) 85.9 86.9 89.8 -1.0 - Enel
Unregulated (%) 81.1 86.2 87.7 -5.1 - Enel
Service interruptions - frequency
EU28
(SAIFI)
Frequency of interruptions by
(no.) 2.6 2.8 n.d. -0.2 -7.1 Enel
customer
Frequency of interruptions by
(no.) 1.7 1.8 1.7 -0.1 -3.4 Italy
customer Italy
Frequency of interruptions by
(no.) 2.9 3.2 3.8 -0.3 -9.4 Romania
customer Romania (Dobrogea)
Frequency of interruptions by
(no.) 2.3 2.5 2.9 -0.2 -8.7 Romania
customer Romania (Muntenia)
Frequency of interruptions by
(no.) 3.0 3.2 3.9 -0.2 -6.3 Romania
customer Romania (Banat)
Frequency of interruptions by
(no.) 1.3 1.4 1.4 -0.1 -5.8 Iberia
customer Iberia
Frequency of interruptions by
(no.) 2.9 2.3 2.6 0.6 24.5 Peru
customer Peru
Frequency of interruptions by
(no.) 1.6 1.5 1.5 0.1 6.7 Chile
customer Chile
Frequency of interruptions by
(no.) 5.3 4.8 4.5 0.5 10.4 Argentina
customer Argentina
Frequency of interruptions by
(no.) 4.5 4.6 6.1 -0.1 -3.0 Brazil
customer Brazil (Ampla)
Frequency of interruptions by
(no.) 4.2 4.7 6.0 -0.5 -10.6 Brazil
customer Brazil (Coelce)
Frequency of interruptions by
(no.) 7.7 8.4 8.5 -0.7 -8.3 Brazil
customer Brazil (CELG)
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Frequency of interruptions by
(no.) 3.4 3.4 3.6 - - Brazil
customer Brazil (ELPL)
Frequency of interruptions by
(no.) 3.9 5.2 5.6 -1.3 -25.3 Colombia
customer Colombia
Service interruptions - duration
EU29
(SAIDI)
Service continuity index (min.) 231 243 n.d. -12.6 -5.2 Enel
Service continuity index Italy (min.) 42 43 42 -1 -2.3 Italy
Service continuity index Romania
(min.) 90 111 133 -21 -18.9 Romania
(Dobrogea)
Service continuity index Romania
(min.) 77 95 117 -18 -18.9 Romania
(Muntenia)
Service continuity index Romania
(min.) 117 132 162 -15 -11.4 Romania
(Banat)
Service continuity index Iberia (min.) 64 70 75 -6 -8.6 Iberia
Service continuity index Peru (min.) 608 414 419 194 46.9 Peru
Service continuity index Chile (min.) 159 152 171 7 4.6 Chile
Service continuity index Argentina (min.) 892 797 839 95 11.9 Argentina
Service continuity index Brazil
(min.) 556 556 632 - - Brazil
(Ampla)
Service continuity index Brazil
(min.) 589 681 953 -92 -13.5 Brazil
(Coelce)
Service continuity index Brazil
(min.) 915 1,088 953 -173 -15.9 Brazil
(CELG)
Service continuity index Brazil
(min.) 374 396 443 -22 -5.6 Brazil
(ELPL)
Service continuity index Brazil
(min.) 320 401 467 -81 -20.2 Colombia
Colombia
EU12 Distribution grid losses
Grid losses Italy (%) 4.7 4.7 4.9 - - Italy
Grid losses Romania (Dobrogea) (%) 7.6 8.5 8.6 -0.9 - Romania
Grid losses Romania (Muntenia) (%) 8.9 8.9 9.7 - - Romania
Grid losses Romania (Banat) (%) 9.0 8.7 9.0 0.3 - Romania
Grid losses Iberia (%) 7.0 7.1 7.1 -0.1 - Iberia
Grid losses Peru (%) 8.2 8.5 8.8 -0.3 - Peru
Grid losses Chile (%) 5.1 5.2 5.2 -0.1 - Chile
Grid losses Argentina (%) 17.1 18.0 18.9 -0.9 - Argentina
Grid losses Brazil (Ampla) (%) 19.7 20.5 22.1 -0.8 - Brazil
Grid losses Brazil (Coelce) (%) 15.2 16.1 15.8 -0.9 - Brazil
Grid losses Brazil (CELG) (%) 12.9 11.3 11.4 1.6 - Brazil
Grid losses Brazil (ELPL) (%) 11.0 10.3 10.6 0.7 - Brazil
Grid losses Colombia (%) 7.5 7.5 7.6 - - Colombia
Transmission grid losses
Transmission grid losses Brazil (Enel
(%) 0.09 0.08 0.11 0.01 - Brazil
CIEN SA)
2-29 SERVICE QUALITY
ELECTRICITY MARKET ITALY
Regulated market
Frequency of surveys (no.) 1 1 1 - - Italy
Written complaints and information
(,000) 104.0 87.4 88.3 16.6 19.0 Italy
requests
Response time to written
(gg) 13.0 11.0 25.0 2.0 18.2 Italy
complaints
Free market
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Frequency of surveys (no.) 1 1 1 - - Italy
Written complaints and information
(,000) 117.0 105.5 113.0 11.5 10.9 Italy
requests
Response time to written
(gg) 20 18 14.0 2.0 11.1 Italy
complaints
ELECTRICITY MARKET ROMANIA
Regulated market
Written complaints and information
(,000) n.d. 108 - - - Romania
requests
Response time to written
(gg) n.d. 25 30.0 - - Romania
complaints
Free market
Written complaints and information
(,000) n.d. 563 355.0 - - Romania
requests
Response time to written
(gg) n.d. 26 30.0 - - Romania
complaints
ELECTRICITY MARKET IBERIA
Regulated market (ex TUR market )
Written complaints and information
(,000) 387.9 416 315.0 -28.1 -6.8 Iberia
requests
Response time to written
(gg) 20.10 15.7 7.2 4.4 28.0 Iberia
complaints
(n./10.000
Commercial complaints 212 n.d. n.d. - - Enel
customers)
EU27 ACCESSIBILITY OF ENERGY
Customers disconnected for non-
payment MARKET ITALY
by time from disconnection to
(no.) 208,025 155,390 201,288 52,635 33.9 Italy
payment - Italy (Regulated market)
< 48 h (no.) 108,161 86,401 109,170 21,760 25.2 Italy
48 h - 1 week (no.) 50,281 35,347 46,652 14,934 42.2 Italy
1 week - 1 month (no.) 49,357 33,534 45,123 15,823 47.2 Italy
1 month - 1 year (no.) 225 108 343 117 - Italy
> 1 year (no.) 1 - - 1 - Italy
by time from payment to
reconnection - Italy (Regulated (no.) 208,025 155,390 201,288 52,635 33.9 Italy
market)
< 24 h (no.) 196,604 144,508 185,090 52,096 36.1 Italy
24 h - 1 week (no.) 11,104 10,657 15,799 447 4.2 Italy
> 1 week (no.) 317 225 399 92 40.9 Italy
by time from disconnection to
(no.) 285,037 336,381 381,435 -51,344 -15.3 Italy
payment - Italy (Free market)
< 48 h (no.) 152,857 175,457 203,228 -22,600 -12.9 Italy
48 h - 1 week (no.) 47,455 64,659 74,688 -17,204 -26.6 Italy
1 week - 1 month (no.) 77,590 89,645 95,630 -12,055 -13.4 Italy
1 month - 1 year (no.) 7,135 6,620 7,889 515 7.8 Italy
> 1 year (no.) - - - - - Italy
by time from payment to
(no.) 285,037 336,381 381,435 -51,344 -15.3 Italy
reconnection - Italy (Free market)
< 24 h (no.) 279,801 334,081 379,565 -54,280 -16.2 Italy
24 h - 1 week (no.) 5,230 2,279 1,855 2,951 - Italy
> 1 week (no.) 6 21 15 -15 -71.4 Italy
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
by time from disconnection to
(no.) 45,004 55,325 59,923 -10,321 -18.7 Italy
payment - Italy (Gas market)
< 48 h (no.) 11,239 13,411 14,140 -2,172 -16.2 Italy
48 h - 1 week (no.) 13,954 18,597 20,840 -4,643 -25.0 Italy
1 week - 1 month (no.) 17,036 20,541 21,579 -3,505 -17.1 Italy
1 month - 1 year (no.) 2,775 2,776 3,364 -1 - Italy
> 1 year (no.) - - - - - Italy
by time from payment to
(no.) 45,004 55,325 59,923 -10,321 -18.7 Italy
reconnection - Italy (Gas market)
< 24 h (no.) 42,216 51,408 56,425 -9,192 -17.9 Italy
24 h - 1 week (no.) 2,763 3,891 3,471 -1,128 -29.0 Italy
> 1 week (no.) 25 26 27 -1 -3.8 Italy
Regulated market - Romania
by time from disconnection to
payment - Romania (Regulated (no.) 1,746 1,053 4,280 693 65.8 Romania
market)
< 48 h (no.) 875 394 1,338 481 - Romania
48 h - 1 week (no.) 341 198 321 143 72.2 Romania
1 week - 1 month (no.) 389 318 345 71 22.3 Romania
1 month - 1 year (no.) 141 143 1,032 -2 -1.4 Romania
> 1 year (no.) - - 1,244 - - Romania
by time from payment to
reconnection - Romania (no.) 874 1,053 3,036 -179 -17.0 Romania
(Regulated market)
< 24 h (no.) 674 1,053 2,286 -379 -36.0 Romania
24 h - 1 week (no.) 200 - 685 200 - Romania
> 1 week (no.) - - 65 - - Romania
Free market - Romania
by time from disconnection to
(no.) 16,271 3,285 4,218 12,986 - Romania
payment - Romania (Free market)
< 48 h (no.) 9,327 1,582 2,337 7,745 - Romania
48 h - 1 week (no.) 2,755 625 373 2,130 - Romania
1 week - 1 month (no.) 2,767 818 379 1,949 - Romania
1 month - 1 year (no.) 1,422 260 645 1,162 - Romania
> 1 year (no.) - - 484 - - Romania
by time from payment to
reconnection - Romania (Free (no.) 15,745 3,285 3,734 12,460 - Romania
market)
< 24 h (no.) 11,446 3,285 3,058 8,161 - Romania
24 h - 1 week (no.) 4,299 - 636 4,299 - Romania
> 1 week (no.) - - 40 - - Romania
Regulated market - Iberia
by time from disconnection to
payment - Iberia (Regulated (no.) 21,779 54,120 10,635 -32,341 -59.8 Iberia
market)
< 48 h (no.) 17,564 41,123 8,231 -23,559 -57.3 Iberia
48 h - 1 week (no.) 2,326 6,648 1,294 -4,322 -65.0 Iberia
1 week - 1 month (no.) 1,405 4,325 814 -2,920 -67.5 Iberia
1 month - 1 year (no.) 484 2,024 296 -1,540 -76.1 Iberia
> 1 year (no.) - - - - - Iberia
by time from payment to
reconnection - Iberia (Regulated (no.) 21,793 54,110 10,633 -32,317 -59.7 Iberia
market)
< 24 h (no.) 21,356 51,759 10,304 -30,403 -58.7 Iberia
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
24 h - 1 week (no.) 404 2,168 307 -1,764 -81.4 Iberia
> 1 week (no.) 33 183 22 -150 -82.0 Iberia
Free market - Iberia
by time from disconnection to
(no.) 14,218 51,980 12,346 -37,762 -72.6 Iberia
payment - Iberia (Free market)
< 48 h (no.) 12,232 43,579 10,090 -31,347 -71.9 Iberia
48 h - 1 week (no.) 1,458 5,919 1,443 -4,461 -75.4 Iberia
1 week - 1 month (no.) 525 2,385 731 -1,860 -78.0 Iberia
1 month - 1 year (no.) 3 97 82 -94 -96.9 Iberia
> 1 year (no.) - - - - - Iberia
by time from payment to
reconnection - Iberia (Free (no.) 14,215 51,977 12,345 -37,762 -72.7 Iberia
market)
< 24 h (no.) 13,848 49,844 12,000 -35,996 -72.2 Iberia
24 h - 1 week (no.) 334 1,969 318 -1,635 -83.0 Iberia
> 1 week (no.) 33 164 27 -131 -79.9 Iberia
by time from disconnection to
(no.) 1,557 5,453 1,290 -3,896 -71.4 Iberia
payment - Iberia (Gas market)
< 48 h (no.) 855 3,262 762 -2,407 -73.8 Iberia
48 h - 1 week (no.) 329 1,217 267 -888 -73.0 Iberia
1 week - 1 month (no.) 322 813 134 -491 -60.4 Iberia
1 month - 1 year (no.) 51 161 127 -110 -68.3 Iberia
> 1 year (no.) - - - - - Iberia
by time from payment to
(no.) 1,524 5,333 1,273 -3,809 -71.4 Iberia
reconnection - Iberia (Gas market)
< 24 h (no.) 338 1,023 236 -685 -67.0 Iberia
24 h - 1 week (no.) 890 3,331 767 -2,441 -73.3 Iberia
> 1 week (no.) 296 979 270 -683 -69.8 Iberia
Regulated market - Latin America
by time from disconnection
to payment - Latin America (no.) 4,211,428 4,336,099 716,328 -124,671 -2.9 Latin America
(Regulated market)
< 48 h (no.) 2,457,160 2,760,105 332,424 -302,945 -11.0 Latin America
48 h - 1 week (no.) 537,479 799,817 80,888 -262,338 -32.8 Latin America
1 week - 1 month (no.) 541,326 549,701 118,244 -8,375 -1.5 Latin America
1 month - 1 year (no.) 647,637 224,389 184,769 423,248 - Latin America
> 1 year (no.) 27,826 2,087 3 25,739 - Latin America
by time from payment to
reconnection - Latin America (no.) 3,459,876 5,389,308 811,756 -1,929,432 -35.8 Latin America
(Regulated market)
< 24 h (no.) 2,797,521 3,931,289 788,338 -1,133,768 -28.8 Latin America
24 h - 1 week (no.) 533,766 1,385,738 19,607 -851,972 -61.5 Latin America
> 1 week (no.) 128,589 61,281 3,811 67,308 - Latin America
Disputes with customers
Total proceedings (no.) 136,428 126,692 112,938 9,736 7.7 Enel
Incidence of proceedings as
(%) 69.1 71.3 62.7 -2.2 - Enel
defendant
(1) Availability was calculated by reducing the causes of internal unavailability. Some 2021 and 2020 figures include a more specific determination of the
amounts.
Empowering Enel people
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
SIZE AND COMPOSITION OF WORKFORCE
2-7 Size of workforce
Total workforce (no.) 65,124 66,279 66,717 -1,155 -1.7 Enel
- of which men (no.) 49,899 51,341 52,346 -1,442 -2.8 Enel
- of which men (%) (%) 77 77 78 -
- of which women (no.) 15,225 14,938 14,371 287 1.9 Enel
- of which women (%) (%) 23 23 22 -
Average workforce (no.) 66,475 65,976 67,078 499 0.8 Enel
401-1 Change to size(1)
New recruits (no.) 6,412 5,401 3,131 1,011 18.7 Enel
Changes in scope (no.) -3,153 23 -971 -3,176 - Enel
Terminations (no.) 4,414 5,862 3,696 -1,448 -24.7 Enel
Balance (no.) -1,155 -438 -1,536 -717 - Enel
Workforce by geographic area and gender
Italy(2) (no.) 31,664 30,276 29,800 1,388 4.6 Italy
- of which men (no.) 24,943 24,136 23,971 807 3.3 Italy
- of which women (no.) 6,721 6,140 5,829 581 9.5 Italy
Iberia(3) (no.) 9,643 9,518 9,781 125 1.3 Iberia
- of which men (no.) 7,091 7,084 7,381 7 0.1 Iberia
- of which women (no.) 2,552 2,434 2,400 118 4.8 Iberia
Europe(4) (no.) 3,532 4,994 4,966 -1,462 -29.3 Europe
- of which men (no.) 2,408 3,478 3,473 -1,070 -30.8 Europe
- of which women (no.) 1,124 1,516 1,493 -392 -25.9 Europe
North
North America(5) (no.) 2,100 1,914 1,639 186 9.7
America
North
- of which men (no.) 1,475 1,352 1,179 123 9.1
America
North
- of which women (no.) 625 562 460 63 11.2
America
Latin
Latin America (no.) 17,361 18,763 19,838 -1,402 -7.5
America
Latin
- of which men (no.) 13,412 14,712 15,852 -1,300 -8.8
America
Latin
- of which women (no.) 3,949 4,051 3,986 -102 -2.5
America
Africa, Asia
Africa Sub-Sahariana e Asia(6) (no.) 824 814 693 10 1.2
and Oceania
Africa, Asia
- of which men (no.) 570 579 490 -9 -1.6
and Oceania
Africa, Asia
- of which women (no.) 254 235 203 19 8.1
and Oceania
405-1 Workforce by level and gender
Manager (no.) 1,366 1,377 1,397 -11 -0.8 Enel
- of which men (no.) 1,025 1,052 1,095 -27 -2.6 Enel
(%) 75.0 76.4 78.4 -1.4 - Enel
- of which women (no.) 341 325 302 16 4.9 Enel
(%) 25.0 23.6 21.6 1.4 - Enel
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Middle Manager (no.) 12,645 12,242 11,592 403 3.3 Enel
- of which men (no.) 8,523 8,403 8,069 120 1.4 Enel
(%) 67.4 68.6 69.6 -1.4 - Enel
- of which women (no.) 4,122 3,839 3,523 283 7.4 Enel
(%) 32.6 31.4 30.4 1.2 - Enel
White-collar (no.) 34,634 35,556 35,883 -922 -2.6 Enel
- of which men (no.) 24,078 25,138 25,706 -1,060 -4.2 Enel
(%) 69.5 70.7 71.6 -1.2 - Enel
- of which women (no.) 10,556 10,418 10,177 138 1.3 Enel
(%) 30.5 29.3 28.4 1.2 - Enel
Blue-collar (no.) 16,478 17,104 17,845 -626 -3.7 Enel
- of which men (no.) 16,272 16,748 17,476 -476 -2.8 Enel
(%) 98.7 97.9 97.9 0.8 - Enel
- of which women (no.) 207 357 369 -150 -42.0 Enel
(%) 1.3 2.1 2.1 -0.8 - Enel
Index of professional qualification
Managers (%) 2.1 2.1 2.1 - - Enel
Middle Managers (%) 19.4 18.5 17.4 0.9 - Enel
White-collar (%) 53.2 53.6 53.8 -0.4 - Enel
Blue-collar (%) 25.3 25.8 26.7 -0.5 - Enel
Percentage of managers by geographical area
Italy(2) (no.) 31,664 30,276 29,800 1,388 4.6 Italy
(%) people of total Group people (%) 48.6 45.7 44.7 2.9 - Italy
(%) people of total Group managers (%) 63.3 60.1 58.3 3.2 - Italy
(%) people of total not Group managers (%) 48.3 45.4 44.4 2.9 - Italy
Iberia(3) (no.) 9,643 9,518 9,781 125 1.3 Iberia
(%) people of total Group people (%) 14.8 14.4 14.7 0.4 - Iberia
(%) people of total Group managers (%) 17.9 20.3 21.3 -2.4 - Iberia
(%) people of total not Group managers (%) 14.7 14.2 14.5 0.5 - Iberia
Romania (no.) 3,265 3,291 3,248 -26 -0.8 Romania
(%) people of total Group people (%) 5.0 5.0 4.9 - - Romania
(%) people of total Group managers (%) 1.8 1.4 1.4 0.4 - Romania
(%) people of total not Group managers (%) 5.1 5.0 4.9 0.1 - Romania
Brazil (no.) 7,510 8,970 10,040 -1,460 -16.3 Brazil
(%) people of total Group people (%) 11.5 13.5 15.0 -2.0 - Brazil
(%) people of total Group managers (%) 5.1 4.7 4.2 0.4 - Brazil
(%) people of total not Group managers (%) 8.0 9.8 15.3 -1.8 - Brazil
Argentina (no.) 4,007 4,054 4,048 -47 -1.2 Argentina
(%) people of total Group people (%) 6.2 6.1 6.1 0.1 - Argentina
(%) people of total Group managers (%) 2.0 1.7 1.7 0.3 - Argentina
(%) people of total not Group managers (%) 6.2 6.2 6.2 - - Argentina
Chile (no.) 2,219 2,271 2,281 -52 -2.3 Chile
(%) people of total Group people (%) 3.4 3.4 3.4 - - Chile
(%) people of total Group managers (%) 3.5 4.0 4.4 -0.5 - Chile
(%) people of total not Group managers (%) 3.4 3.4 3.4 - - Chile
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Peru (no.) 1,075 988 954 87 8.8 Peru
(%) people of total Group people (%) 1.7 1.5 1.4 0.2 - Peru
(%) people of total Group managers (%) 1.5 1.4 1.9 0.1 - Peru
(%) people of total not Group managers (%) 1.7 1.5 1.4 0.2 - Peru
Colombia (no.) 2,327 2,256 2,191 71 3.1 Colombia
(%) people of total Group people (%) 3.6 3.4 3.3 0.2 - Colombia
(%) people of total Group managers (%) 2.6 2.7 2.6 -0.1 - Colombia
(%) people of total not Group managers (%) 3.6 3.4 3.3 0.2 - Colombia
United States (no.) 1,737 1,534 1,287 203 13.2 United States
(%) people of total Group people (%) 2.7 2.3 1.9 0.4 - United States
(%) people of total Group managers (%) 1.3 1.1 1.2 0.2 - United States
(%) people of total not Group managers (%) 2.7 2.3 1.9 0.4 - United States
405-1 Workforce by age range and level(7)
< 30 (%) 13.1 11.5 10.9 1.6 13.9 Enel
- of whom Managers (%) - - - - - Enel
- of whom Middle Managers (%) 2.9 2.4 2.2 0.5 - Enel
- of whom White-collar (%) 13.1 10.5 9.7 2.6 - Enel
- of whom Blue-collar (%) 22.2 20.7 19.9 1.5 - Enel
30 - 50 (%) 56.5 57.3 54.5 -0.8 - Enel
- of whom Managers (%) 51.4 46.8 46.9 4.6 - Enel
- of whom Middle Managers (%) 65.0 56.9 61.8 8.1 - Enel
- of whom White-collar (%) 53.2 52.1 51.5 1.1 - Enel
- of whom Blue-collar (%) 57.4 58.0 56.4 -0.6 - Enel
> 50 (%) 30.4 31.2 34.6 -0.8 - Enel
- of whom Managers (%) 48.6 46.2 53.1 2.4 - Enel
- of whom Middle Managers (%) 32.1 27.4 36.0 4.7 - Enel
- of whom White-collar (%) 33.8 33.1 38.8 0.7 - Enel
- of whom Blue-collar (%) 20.4 21.3 23.7 -0.9 - Enel
Average age (anni) 43.6 43.8 44.1 -0.2 -0.5 Enel
2-7 Workforce by type of contract and gender
Permanent contract (no.) 64,377 65,453 65,822 -1,076 -1.6 Enel
- of which men (no.) 49,387 50,803 51,783 -1,416 -2.8 Enel
- of which women (no.) 14,989 14,650 14,039 339 2.3 Enel
Fixed-term contracts (no.) 747 826 895 -79 -9.6 Enel
- of which men (no.) 511 537 563 -26 -4.8 Enel
- of which women (no.) 236 289 332 -53 -18.3 Enel
Total contracts (no.) 65,124 66,279 66,717 -1,155 -1.7 Enel
- of which men (no.) 49,899 51,341 52,346 -1,442 -2.8 Enel
- of which women (no.) 15,225 14,938 14,371 287 1.9 Enel
Use of fixed-term contracts and inclusion/
2-8 (%) 1.1 1.2 1.3 -0.1 - Enel
Centre for Labor Training (CFL) of the total
Internship and traineeships (no.) 799 1,083 883 -284 -26.2 Enel
Workforce by type of contract and
2-7
geographic area(3)
Italy(2) (no.) 31,664 30,276 29,800 1,388 4.6 Italy
Permanent contract (no.) 31,662 30,263 29,783 1,399 4.6 Italy
Fixed-term contracts (no.) 2 13 17 -11 -84.6 Italy
Iberia (no.) 9,643 9,518 9,781 125 1.3 Iberia
Permanent contract (no.) 9,423 9,281 9,531 142 1.5 Iberia
Fixed-term contracts (no.) 220 237 250 -17 -7.2 Iberia
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Latin
Latin America (no.) 17,361 18,763 19,838 -1,402 -7.5
America
Latin
Permanent contract (no.) 16,893 18,304 19,374 -1,411 -7.7
America
Latin
Fixed-term contracts (no.) 468 459 464 9 2.0
America
Europe(4) (no.) 3,532 4,994 4,966 -1,462 -29.3 Europe
Permanent contract (no.) 3,495 4,883 4,817 -1,388 -28.4 Europe
Fixed-term contracts (no.) 37 111 149 -74 -66.7 Europe
North
North America (no.) 2,100 1,914 1,639 186 9.7
America
North
Permanent contract (no.) 2,086 1,909 1,627 177 9.3
America
North
Fixed-term contracts (no.) 14 5 12 9 -
America
Sub-
Saharan
Sub-Saharan Africa and Asia (no.) 824 814 693 10 1.2
Africa and
Asia
Africa, Asia
Permanent contract (no.) 818 813 690 5 0.6
and Oceania
Africa, Asia
Fixed-term contracts (no.) 6 1 3 5 -
and Oceania
2-7 Workforce by type of contract and gender
Full-time contracts (no.) 64,619 65,689 66,074 -1,070 -1.6 Enel
- of which men (no.) 49,801 51,209 52,208 -1,408 -2.7 Enel
- of which women (no.) 14,818 14,480 13,866 338 2.3 Enel
Part-time contracts (no.) 505 590 643 -85 -14.4 Enel
- of which men (no.) 98 130 138 -32 -24.6 Enel
- of which women (no.) 407 460 505 -53 -11.5 Enel
Part Time + Full Time (no.) 65,124 66,279 66,717 -1,155 -1.7 Enel
Percentage of part-time (%) 0.8 0.9 1.0 -0.1 - Enel
Workforce by nationality
DJSI
Total workforce
3.2.3
Italy (%) 48.3 45.4 44.4 2.9 - Enel
Brazil (%) 11.5 13.5 15.0 -2.0 - Enel
Spain (%) 14.4 14.0 14.4 0.4 - Enel
Argentina (%) 6.0 6.0 5.9 - - Enel
Romania (%) 5.0 4.9 4.8 0.1 - Enel
Colombia (%) 3.6 3.4 3.3 0.2 - Enel
Chile (%) 3.2 3.2 3.3 - - Enel
Other (%) 8.0 9.4 8.8 -1.4 - Enel
DJSI Workforce in management positions
3.2.3 (manager and middle manager)
Italy (%) 49 47.8 47.7 0.8 - Enel
Brazil (%) 4.8 5.1 4.8 -0.2 - Enel
Spain (%) 29.7 29.0 29.3 0.6 - Enel
Argentina (%) 2.1 2.1 2.2 - - Enel
Romania (%) 2.7 2.7 2.7 - - Enel
Colombia (%) 2.2 2.1 2.1 0.1 - Enel
Chile (%) 2.7 2.9 2.9 -0.2 - Enel
Other (%) 7.1 8.3 8.3 -1.2 - Enel
401-1 CHANGES TO SIZE
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
New hires
New hires by gender (no.) 6,412 5,401 3,131 1,011 18.7 Enel
Hiring rate(8) (%) 9.8 8.1 4.7 1.7 - Enel
- men (no.) 4,356 3,764 2,203 592 15.7 Enel
(%) 62.4 69.7 70.4 -7.3 - Enel
- women (no.) 2,056 1,637 928 419 25.6 Enel
(%) 32.5 30.3 29.6 2.2 - Enel
New hires by age range (no.) 6,412 5,401 3,131 1,011 18.7 Enel
up to 30 (no.) 3,359 2,579 1,363 780 30.2 Enel
(%) 54.2 47.8 43.5 6.4 - Enel
from 30 to 50 (no.) 2,905 2,653 1,700 252 9.5 Enel
(%) 42.5 49.1 54.3 -6.6 - Enel
over 50 (no.) 148 169 68 -21 -12.4 Enel
(%) 2.4 3.1 2.2 -0.7 - Enel
New hires by geographic area
Italy(2) (no.) 2,866 1,697 1,044 1,169 68.9 Italy
(%) 9.1 5.6 33.3 3.5 - Italy
Iberia (no.) 741 694 257 47 6.8 Iberia
(%) 7.7 7.3 8.2 0.4 - Iberia
Europe(4) (no.) 443 439 280 4 0.9 Europe
(%) 12.5 8.8 8.9 3.7 - Europe
North
North America (no.) 614 636 362 -22 -3.5
America
North
(%) 29.2 33.2 11.6 -4.0 -
America
Latin
Latin America (no.) 1,542 1,704 991 -162 -9.5
America
Latin
(%) 8.9 9.1 31.7 -0.2 -
America
Sub-
Saharan
Sub-Saharan Africa and Asia (no.) 206 232 197 -26 -11.2
Africa and
Asia
Sub-
Saharan
(%) 25.0 28.5 6.3 -3.5 -
Africa and
Asia
Open positions filled by internal candidates (%) 9.4 9.3 14.0 0.1 - Enel
Effect of the changes in scope (no.) -3,153 23 -971 -3,176 - Enel
Terminations
Total terminations (no.) 4,414 5,862 3,696 -1,448 -24.7 Enel
Causes
Voluntary terminations (no.) 1,477 1,271 717 206 16.2 Enel
Incentive based terminations (no.) 1,853 3,532 817 -1,679 -47.5 Enel
Retirements and other (no.) 1,084 1,060 2,162 24 2.3 Enel
Terminations by gender
- men (no.) 3,391 4,779 3,002 -1,388 -29.0 Enel
(%) 76.8 81.5 81.2 -4.7 - Enel
- women (no.) 1,023 1,083 694 -60 -5.5 Enel
(%) 23.2 18.5 18.8 4.7 - Enel
Terminations by age range (no.) 4,414 5,862 3,696 -1,448 -24.7 Enel
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
up to 30 (no.) 655 702 547 -47 -6.7 Enel
(%) 14.9 12.0 14.8 2.9 - Enel
from 30 to 50 (no.) 1,759 2,275 1,273 -516 -22.7 Enel
(%) 39.8 38.8 34.4 1.0 - Enel
over 50 (no.) 2,001 2,885 1,876 -884 -30.6 Enel
(%) 46.0 49.2 50.8 -3.2 - Enel
Terminations by Country
Italy(2) (no.) 1,224 1,249 1,011 -25 -2.0 Italy
(%) 27.7 4.1 27.4 23.6 - Italy
Iberia (no.) 578 956 599 -378 -39.5 Iberia
(%) 13.1 10.0 16.2 3.1 - Iberia
Europe(3) (no.) 454 406 299 48 11.8 Europe
(%) 10.3 8.1 8.1 2.2 - Europe
North
North America (no.) 428 361 313 67 18.6
America
North
(%) 9.7 18.9 8.5 -9.2 -
America
Latin
Latin America (no.) 1,534 2,779 1,393 -1,245 -44.8
America
Latin
(%) 34.8 14.8 37.7 20.0 -
America
Sub-
Saharan
Sub-Saharan Africa and Asia (no.) 196 111 81 85 76.6
Africa and
Asia
Africa, Asia
(%) 4.4 13.6 2.2 -9.2 -
and Oceania
Turnover rate(9) (%) 6.8 8.8 5.6 -2.0 - Enel
Turnover rate by gender
- men (%) 6.8 9.5 5.7 -2.7 - Enel
- women (%) 6.7 7.5 4.8 -0.8 - Enel
Turnover rate by age range
up to 30 (%) 1.0 9.0 7.5 -8.0 - Enel
from 30 to 50 (%) 2.7 6.0 3.5 -3.3 - Enel
over 50 (%) 3.1 14.1 8.1 -11.0 - Enel
Voluntary turnover rate (%) 2.3 1.9 1.1 0.8 - Enel
Voluntary turnover rate by gender
- men (%) 1.6 1.3 0.8 0.3 - Enel
- women (%) 0.7 0.6 0.3 0.3 - Enel
Voluntary turnover rate by age range
up to 30 (%) 0.6 0.5 0.2 0.1 - Enel
from 30 to 50 (%) 1.5 1.3 0.7 0.2 - Enel
over 50 (%) 0.1 0.1 0.2 - - Enel
VALORIZATION
404-3 Assessment(10)
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Dissemination of assessment (%) 87.0 89.2 93.8 -2.2 - Enel
- men (%) 86.4 88.6 94.0 -2.2 - Enel
- women (%) 89.0 91.4 93.0 -2.4 - Enel
Dissemination of assessment
Manager (%) 97.3 97.2 97.8 0.1 - Enel
Middle Manager (%) 92.6 93.2 93.7 -0.6 - Enel
White collar (%) 88.2 88.6 93.4 -0.4 - Enel
Blue collar (%) 79.3 79.1 94.4 0.2 - Enel
Rewarding
Dissemination of incentives (%) 41.5 43.1 43.6 -1.6 - Enel
Employees with individual incentives (no.) 27,050 28,568 22,546 -1,518 -5.3 Enel
- of whom Managers (no.) 1,349 1,351 1,006 -2 -0.1 Enel
- of whom Middle Managers (no.) 8,224 7,915 3,750 309 3.9 Enel
- of whom White-collar e Blue collar (no.) 17,477 19,308 17,790 1,831 -9.5 Enel
Percentage of sustainability objectives
(%) 25.3 30.0 n.d. -0.7 - Enel
assigned
Percentage of sustainability objectives
404-1
assigned
(h/per
Training hours by employees 47.4 44.6 40.9 2.8 6.3 Enel
capita)
by gender:
(h/per
- men 48.3 46.5 40.4 1.8 3.9 Enel
capita)
(h/per
- women 44.3 37.7 42.7 6.6 17.5 Enel
capita)
by level:
(h/per
Manager 44.1 29.6 31.9 14.5 49.0 Enel
capita)
(h/per
Middle Manager 47.4 41.9 41.4 5.5 13.1 Enel
capita)
(h/per
White collar 43.0 38.4 35.7 4.6 12.0 Enel
capita)
(h/per
Blue collar 57.1 60.3 51.4 -3.2 -5.3 Enel
capita)
Total training hours (distance learning +
(,000 h) 3,151 2,943 2,744 208 7.1 Enel
classroom)
Training hours distance learning (,000 h) 1,943 513 448 1,430 - Enel
- Training hours distance learning (,000 h) 344 204 94 139 68.2 Enel
- for specialist training (,000 h) 1,599 309 354 1,290 - Enel
Training hours in the classroom (,000 h) 1,208 2,430 2,296 -1,222 -50.3 Enel
- for managerial training (,000 h) 57 189 170 -132 -69.9 Enel
- for specialist training (,000 h) 1,151 2,241 2,126 -1,090 -48.6 Enel
Incidence of distance learning training (%) 61.7 17.4 16.3 44.3 - Enel
Total training hours by level (,000 h) 3,151 2,943 2,744 208 7.1 Enel
Manager (,000 h) 61 41 45 20 49.1 Enel
Middle Manager (,000 h) 593 494 466 99 20.0 Enel
White collar (,000 h) 1,532 1,362 1,287 170 12.5 Enel
Blue collar (,000 h) 964 1,045 946 -81 -7.8 Enel
Dissemination of sustainability
(h/pro-
Training per capita on sustainability 27.9 26.7 21.7 -13.3 -49.8 Enel
capite)
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Training per capita on sustainability (,000 h) 1,853 1,763 1,457 67 3.8 Enel
Digitalization (,000 h) 431 410 342 21 5.2 Enel
Environment (,000 h) 28 58 48 -30 -51.8 Enel
Safety (,000 h) 1,244 1,188 979 56 4.7 Enel
Human rights (,000 h) 7 7 5 - - Enel
Other(11) (,000 h) 128 88 61 40 44.8 Enel
Code of Ethics (,000 h) 15 11 22 4 34.8 Enel
Training on anti-corruption policies
205-2 (no.) 30,566 20,074 26,660 10,490 52.3 Enel
and procedures communication
(%) 46.9 30.3 40.0 16.6 - Enel
Training on anti-corruption policies
and procedures communication by
geographic area
Italy (no.) 17,882 10,443 14,224 7,439 71.2 Italy
Italy (%) 56.5 34.5 47.7 22.0 - Italy
Iberia (no.) 4,922 3,564 1,977 1,358 38.1 Iberia
Iberia (%) 51.0 37.4 20.2 13.6 - Iberia
Latin
Latin America (no.) 5,532 3,339 5,326 2,193 65.7
America
Latin
Latin America (%) 31.9 17.8 26.8 14.1 -
America
Europe (no.) 426 1,050 4,006 -624 -59.4 Europe
Europe (%) 12.1 21.0 80.7 -8.9 - Europe
Asia e
Asia e Oceania (no.) 122 225 197 -103 -45.8
Oceania
Asia e
Asia e Oceania (%) 14.8 27.7 28.4 -12.9 -
Oceania
North
North America (no.) 1,682 1,453 930 229 15.8
America
North
North America (%) 80.1 75.9 56.7 4.2 -
America
Training on anti-corruption policies and
procedures communication by level
Manager (no.) 753 487 407 266 54.6 Enel
(%) 55.1 35.4 29.1 19.7 - Enel
Middle Manager (no.) 6,133 4,588 3,967 1545 33.7 Enel
(%) 48.5 37.5 34.2 11.0 - Enel
White collar (no.) 16,106 11,251 14,856 4855 43.2 Enel
(%) 46.5 31.6 41.4 14.9 - Enel
Blue collar (no.) 7,652 3,747 7,430 3905 - Enel
(%) 46.4 21.9 41.6 24.5 - Enel
201-3 CORPORATE WELFARE
Employees covered by pension plan
(no.) 52,497 53,862 53,715 -1,365 -2.5 Enel
benefit plan)
Employees covered by pension plan
(%) 80.6 81.3 80.5 -0.7 - Enel
benefit plan)
Employees entitled to retire in next
EU15
5 to 10 years
Pension within 5 years - Enel
Manager (%) 4.4 4.5 3.6 -0.1 - Enel
Middle Manager (%) 5.4 5.0 4.9 0.4 - Enel
White collar (%) 7.8 7.1 6.6 0.7 - Enel
Blue collar (%) 5.1 3.8 4.4 1.3 - Enel
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Average (%) 6.5 5.7 5.6 0.8 - Enel
Pension within 10 years - Enel
Manager (%) 21.8 20.8 17.7 1.0 - Enel
Middle Manager (%) 18.3 17.3 17.0 1.0 - Enel
White collar (%) 24.0 22.9 21.7 1.1 - Enel
Blue collar (%) 14.8 12.6 11.0 2.2 - Enel
Average (%) 20.5 19.1 17.9 1.4 - Enel
401-3 MATERNITY/PATERNITY-PARENTAL LEAVE
Employees entitled to parental leave by
(no.) 2,756 2,605 2,734 151 5.8 Enel
gender
Men (no.) 1,845 1,694 1,741 151 8.9 Enel
Women (no.) 911 911 993 - - Enel
Parental leave by gender (no.) 2,604 2,605 2,734 -1 - Enel
Men (no.) 1,725 1,694 1,741 31 1.8 Enel
Women (no.) 879 911 993 -32 -3.5 Enel
Return to work rate of employees that took
(%) 95.7 95.0 95.6 0.7 - Enel
parental leave by gender
Men (%) 95.9 96.3 96.1 -0.4 - Enel
Women (%) 95.4 92.7 94.7 2.7 - Enel
Retention rate by gender(12) (%) 89.7 97.0 96.3 -7.3 - Enel
Men (%) 91.2 95.3 97.2 -4.1 - Enel
Women (%) 87.0 100 97.7 -13.2 - Enel
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES
Level of female staff(13) (%) 39.3 30.6 29.4 8.7 - Enel
Ratio of basic salary/remuneration
405-2
Women/Men
Ratio of basic salary Women/Men (%) 104.7 104.8 108.1 -0.1 - Enel
Manager (%) 83.9 84.6 86.7 -0.7 - Enel
Middle Manager (%) 92.8 94.2 96.5 -1.4 - Enel
White collar (%) 88.8 88.4 90.2 0.4 - Enel
Blue collar (%) 125.0 111.2 77.0 13.8 - Enel
Ratio of remuneration Women/Men (%) 105.4 105.1 108.3 0.3 - Enel
Manager (%) 80.7 81.1 83.3 -0.4 - Enel
Middle Manager (%) 91.9 93.2 95.7 -1.3 - Enel
White collar (%) 89.3 88.4 90.3 0.9 - Enel
Blue collar (%) 125.4 112.0 77.8 13.4 - Enel
405-1 Disability
Disabled or belonging to protected
(no.) 2,129 2,152 2,199 -23 -1.1 Enel
categories by gender
- of which men (no.) 1,471 1,480 1,532 -9 -0.6 Enel
- of which women (no.) 658 672 667 -14 -2.1 Enel
Incidence of disabled or belonging to
(%) 3.3 3.2 3.3 0.1 - Enel
protected categories by gender
- of which men (%) 69.1 68.8 2.3 0.3 - Enel
- of which women (%) 30.9 31.2 1.0 -0.3 - Enel
Disabled or belonging to protected
(no.) 2,129 2,152 2,199 -23 -1.1 Enel
categories by age range
- up to 30 (no.) 40 44 49 -4 -9.1 Enel
- from 30 to 50 (no.) 982 985 933 -3 -0.3 Enel
- over 50 (no.) 1,107 1,123 1,217 -16 -1.4 Enel
Incidence of disabled or belonging to
(%) 3.3 3.2 3.3 0.1 - Enel
protected categories by age range
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
- up to 30 (%) 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.4 - Enel
- from 30 to 50 (%) 2.7 1.5 1.4 1.2 - Enel
- over 50 (%) 5.6 1.7 1.8 3.9 - Enel
Disabled or belonging to
protected categories by level
Manager (no.) 4 3 3 1 33.3 Enel
Middle Manager (no.) 201 167 157 34 20.4 Enel
White collar (no.) 1,766 1,814 1,880 -48 -2.6 Enel
Blue collar (no.) 158 168 159 -10 -6.0 Enel
Incidence of disabled or belonging to
protected categories by level
Manager (%) 0.3 - - - - Enel
Middle Manager (%) 1.6 0.3 0.2 1 - Enel
White collar (%) 5.1 2.7 2.8 2 - Enel
Blue collar (%) 1.0 0.3 0.2 1 - Enel
Smartworking
Actual users of smartworking (no.) 36,473 38,403 36,334 -1,930 -5.0 Enel
Potential users of smartworking (no.) 36,707 39,115 37,305 -2,408 -6.2 Enel
Incidence of Smartworking (%) 99.4 98.2 97.4 1.2 - Enel
2-30 RELATIONS WITH UNIONS
Union membership in the electricity sector (%) 46.9 48.9 50.7 -2.0 - Enel
Employees covered by collective
agreements, by geographic area
Total Enel (no.) 59,256 59,582 60,571 -326 -0.5 Enel
(%) 91.0 89.9 90.8 1.1 - Enel
Italy (no.) 31,643 30,148 29,710 1,495 5.0 Italy
(%) 99.9 99.6 99.7 0.3 - Italy
Iberia (no.) 8,213 8,687 8,685 -474 -5.5 Iberia
(%) 85.2 91.3 88.8 -2.4 - Iberia
Europe (no.) 3,252 4,391 4,380 -1,139 -25.9 Europe
(%) 92.1 87.9 88.2 4.2 - Europe
Latin
Latin America (no.) 16,089 16,317 17,771 -228 -1.4
America
Latin
(%) 92.7 87.0 89.6 5.7 -
America
North
North America (no.) 59 39 25 20 51.3
America
North
(%) 2.8 2.0 - 0.8 -
America
Sub-
Saharan
Sub-Saharan Africa and Asia (no.) - - - - -
Africa and
Asia
Sub-
Saharan
(%) - - - - -
Africa and
Asia
Dispute with employees
Total proceedings(14) (no.) 7,786 9,384 9,028.0 -1,598 -17.0 Enel
Incidence of proceedings as defendant (%) 98.7 98.9 98.9 -0.2 - Enel
(1) In 2022, there was a change in scope due to the sale of the companies: Teploprogress, LLC Enel Rus Wind Azov, LLC Enel Rus Wind Kola and Enel Russia in
Russia; Enel Geração Fortaleza SA, CELG Distribuição SA CE and Gridspertise Latam SA in Brazil; Enel Transmisión SA in Chile; Gridspertise Iberia SL in Spain;
Paytipper SpA, CityPoste Payment SpA, PayTipper Network Srl, FlagPay Srl and Gridspertise Srl in Italy. There was also the purchase of the companies Melita
Italy Srl and Enel Hydro Appennino Centrale Srl in Italy.
(2) Include Branch Enel Trading (Singapore) and the Dutch financial companies.
(3) Includes International Endesa BV (IEBV).
(4) The following Countries are considered within this scope: Romania, Russia, Greece, France, Germany, Turkey, United Kingdom, Ireland, Norway, Poland and
Switzerland.
(5) Countries considered within the scope: USA, Canada and Mexico.
(6) The following countries are considered within the scope: India, Kenya, South Africa, Zambia, Australia, Morocco, Singapore, Japan, Taiwan, New Zealand,
China and South Korea, Vietnam.
(7) The 2021 and 2020 figures include a more specific determination.
(8) Hiring rate = Total new recruits/Total workforce.
(9) Turnover rate = Total terminations/Total workforce.
(10) It should be noted that for GRI KPI 404-3, the calculation of the assessed percentage considers all Headcounts and not just those eligible by process for the
denominator.
(11) Includes training relating to privacy, anti-bribery, community relations and diversity.
(12) Retention rate = loyalty index expressing the percentage of employees who remain in the organization over a given timeframe.
(13) Classification index = female managers + middle managers/total managers + middle managers.
(14) The 2022, 2021 and 2020 figures only includes the procedures relating to Enel and retired staff, and not the procedures relating to third parties.
Sustainable supply chain
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
NATURE OF SUPPLIERS
Number of new contracts signed during
(no.) 13,671 12,272 13,051 1,399 11.4 Enel
the year
Number of suppliers with which a new
(no.) 6,213 6,066 6,051 147 2.4 Enel
contract was signed in the year
Workforce of contracting and
(no.) 172,854 170,397 157,940 2,433 1.4 Enel
subcontracting companies(1)
Days worked by employees of contractors
(,000 g) 36,118 37,493 34,747 -1,375 -3.7 Enel
and subcontractors
Construction activity (,000 g) 10,217 14,499 10,519 -4,282 -29.5 Enel
Operating and maintenance activity (,000 g) 26,662 22,993 24,228 3,669 16 Enel
- of which operating activity (,000 g) 6,340 6,898 7,268 -558 -8.1 Enel
- of which maintenance activity (,000 g) 12,836 16,095 16,959 -3,259 -20.2 Enel
204-1 Local suppliers of materials and services(2)
Local suppliers with contracts > 1 mil euros (no.) 1,684 1,566 1,326 118 7.5 Enel
Foreign suppliers with contracts > 1 mil euros (no.) 225 165 182 21 12.7 Enel
Spending on local suppliers with contracts >
(mil euros) 17,411 14,484 10,130 2,927 20.2 Enel
1 mil euros
Spending on foreign suppliers with
(mil euros) 2,837 2,381 1,657 456 19.2 Enel
contracts > 1 mil euros
Concentration of spending on local suppliers(3) (%) 86% 86% 86% - - Enel
Concentration of spending on foreign
(%) 14% 14% 14% - - Enel
suppliers(3)
Purchases and fuel
Purchases of materials and services (mil euros) 22,099 17,030 14,070 5,069 29.8 Enel
Supplies (mil euros) 7,820 6,510 5,480 1,310 20.1 Enel
Works (mil euros) 4,492 3,776 3,625 716 18.9 Enel
Services (mil euros) 9,788 6,744 4,965 3,044 45.1 Enel
Management instruments
Active qualified companies(4) (no.) 9,427 6,717 4,821 2,710 40.3 Enel
Online tenders as percentage of all tenders (%) 95.4 83.5 74.8 11.9 - Enel
Online purchases as percentage of all
(%) 91.8 70.3 67.5 21.5 - Enel
purchases
Use of prescription (%) 32.4 16.0 19.1 16.4 - Enel
Disputes involving suppliers
Total proceedings (no.) 508 785 703 -277 -35.3 Enel
Incidence of proceedings as defendant (%) 63.9 68.7 69.3 -4.8 - Enel
Fuel consumption for thermoelectric
301-1
production
from non-renewable sources
Coal (,000 t) 8,522 5,958 5,893 2,564 43.0 Enel
Lignite (,000 t) - - 105 - - Enel
Fuel oil (,000 t) 889 863 975 26 3.0 Enel
Natural gas (Mm3) 13,214 15,682 13,075 -2,468 -15.7 Enel
Gas oil (,000 t) 1,262 1,033 906 229 22.2 Enel
from renewable resources
Biomass and waste for thermoelectric
(,000 t) 65 71 89 -6 -8.5 Enel
production
Biogas (Mm3) 1.2 0.7 0.1 0.5 71.4 Enel
Geothermal steam used for electricity
(,000 t) 49,947 350,160 350,090 -300,213 -85.7 Enel
production
(1) Calculated in FTE (Full Time Equivalent).
(2) “Local suppliers” are defined as suppliers with their registered office in the country where the supply contract was issued.
(3) The figure for 2021 reflects a more accurate calculation.
(4) The 2021 and 2020 figures changed due to a more specific reclassification between global qualifications and local qualifications.
Engaging communities
GRI/ December December December 2022-
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2021 % Scope
203-1 INITIATIVES IN FAVOR OF THE COMMUNITY
Contributions to communities - LBG method
Charitable donations(1) (mil euros) 14.5 9.8 56.1 4.7 47.8 Enel
Investments in communities(2) (mil euros) 77.2 56.2 56.1 21.0 37.4 Enel
Commercial initiatives with a social impact (mil euros) 28.3 25.2 17.5 3.1 12.4 Enel
Total (expense + investments) (mil euros) 120.0 91.1 129.7 28.8 31.6 Enel
Initiatives in favor of communities by
type of contribution
Cash contribution (mil euros) 103.4 81.7 119.4 21.7 26.6 Enel
Employee volunteerism (mil euros) 0.8 0.4 0.1 0.4 91.0 Enel
Donations in kind (goods/services/projects) (mil euros) 7.5 2.5 4.9 5.0 - Enel
Management overheads (mil euros) 8.3 6.6 5.3 1.7 20.5 Enel
Total (mil euros) 120.0 91.1 129.7 28.8 31.6 Enel
EU25 SAFETY FOR COMMUNITIES
Third-party injuries
Severe and fatal third-party injuries (no.) 168 250 221 -82 -32.8 Enel
- fatal (no.) 67 77 89 -10 -13.0 Enel
- severe (no.) 101 173 132 -72 -41.6 Enel
Third-party injuries by type
Electricity injuries (%) 93.6 92.0 89.6 1.6 - Enel
Road accidents against Group infrastructure (%) 3.5 5.2 6.3 -1.7 - Enel
Accidents for other reasons (slipping, falling
(%) 2.9 2.8 4.1 0.1 - Enel
from height, crash-crush-cut)
Causes of electricity accident
Construction activities near power lines (%) 52.0 64.8 55.6 -12.8 - Enel
Attempted theft (%) 25.4 12.8 9.6 12.6 - Enel
Other(3) (%) 28.9 14.4 34.8 14.5 - Enel
(1) The increase in donations with respect to 2021 is due mainly to the activities carried out in Brazil and Chile.
(2) The increase in community investments with respect to 2021 is due mainly to the activities carried out in Brazil, Chile and Colombia.
(3) Mainly due to accidental contact with metal wires, agricultural work and plant cutting activities, among other things.
Innovation
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
DMA
Research and innovation
EU
Technological innovation(1) (mil euros) 104.5 130.4 110.5 -25.9 -19.9 Enel
Research personnel (no.) 576.0 558.0 520.0 18.0 3.2 Enel
End users (final) (no.) 72,655,170 75,178,777 74,303,931 -2,523,607 -3.4 Enel
Active clients with smart meters(2) (no.) 45,824,963 45,169,318 44,292,794 655,645 1.5 Enel
Active clients with smart meters/End users
% 63.1 59.8 60.0 3.3 - Enel
(final)
(1) Around 40% of investment in Innovation concerned the Global Power Generation Line, while 26% was for the Infrastructure and Networks Line. The rest
concerned the other Group Business Lines.
(2) 2022 share for smart meter 2.0, amounting to 5.4 million.
Occupational health and safety
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
SAFETY
Enel people
Number of fatal accidents and
403-9
frequency rate(1)
Number of fatal accidents (no.) 1 3 1 -2 -66.7 Enel
Fatal accidents by geographical area
Italy (no.) - 2 - -2 -100.0 Italy
Iberia (no.) - - - - - Iberia
Latin
Latin America (no.) - 1 1 -1 -100.0
America
North
North America (no.) - - - - -
America
Europe e
Europe (no.) 1 - - 1 100.0
Nord Africa
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) - - - - - Asia and
Oceania
Fatal accidents frequency rate (i) 0.008 0.024 0.008 -0.016 -66.7 Enel
Fatal accidents frequency rate by
geographical area
Italy (i) - 0.035 - -0.035 -100.0 Italy
Iberia (i) - - - - - Iberia
Latin
Latin America (i) - 0.028 0.026 -0.028 -100.0
America
North
North America (i) - - - - -
America
Europe e
Europe (i) 0.129 - - 0.129 100.0
Nord Africa
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (i) - - - - - Asia and
Oceania
Number of Life Changing Accidents (LCA and
frequency rate)(2)
Number of Life Changing Accidents (LCA) (no.) - 1 - -1 -100.0 Enel
Number of Life Changing Accidents by
geographical area
Italy (no.) - - - - - Italy
Iberia (no.) - - - - - Iberia
Latin
Latin America (no.) - 1 - -1 -100.0
America
North
North America (no.) - - - - -
America
Europe e
Europe (no.) - - - - -
Nord Africa
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) - - - - - Asia and
Oceania
Life Changing Accidents frequency
(i) - 0.008 - -0.008 -100.0 Enel
rate (LCA FR)
Life Changing Accidents frequency
rate by geographical area
Italy (i) - - - - - Italy
Iberia (i) - - - - - Iberia
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Latin
Latin America (i) - 0.028 - -0.028 -100.0
America
North
North America (i) - - - - -
America
Europe e
Europe (i) - - - - -
Nord Africa
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (i) - - - - - Asia and
Oceania
High Potential Accident (HPO) and
frequency rate(3)
High Potential Accident (HPO) (no.) 7 8 10 -1 -12.5 Enel
Number of High Potential accidents (HPO)
by geographical area
Italy (no.) 7 5 4 2 40.0 Italy
Iberia (no.) - 1 1 -1 -100.0 Iberia
Latin
Latin America (no.) - 1 3 -1 -100.0
America
North
North America (no.) - - - - -
America
Europe e
Europe (no.) - 1 2 -1 -100.0
Nord Africa
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) - - - - - Asia and
Oceania
High Potential accidents frequency
(i) 0.057 0.065 0.080 -0.008 -12.3 Enel
rate (HPO FR)
High Potential accidents frequency rate
by geographical area
Italy (i) 0.120 0.089 0.072 0.031 34.8 Italy
Iberia (i) - 0.061 0.059 -0.061 -100.0 Iberia
Latin
Latin America (i) - 0.028 0.079 -0.028 -100.0
America
North
North America (i) - - - - -
America
Europe e
Europe (i) - 0.106 0.196 -0.106 -100.0
Nord Africa
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (i) - - - - - Asia and
Oceania
Number of accidents with absence of work
greater than 3 days and frequency rate
Number of accidents with absence from work
(no.) 59 61 72 -2 -3.3 Enel
for more than 3 days
Number of accidents with absence from work
for more than 3 days by geographical area
Italy (no.) 37 41 41 -4 -9.8 Italy
Iberia (no.) 2 2 2 - - Iberia
Latin
Latin America (no.) 18 18 25 - -
America
North
North America (no.) - - - - -
America
Europe e
Europe (no.) 2 - 4 2 -
Nord Africa
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) - - - - - Asia and
Oceania
Accidents with absence from work for
(i) 0.477 0.494 0.575 -0.017 -3.4 Enel
more than 3 days frequency rate
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Accidents with absence from work for
more than 3 days frequency rate by
geographical area
Italy (i) 0.632 0.726 0.734 -0.094 -12.9 Italy
Iberia (i) 0.121 0.122 0.117 -0.001 -0.8 Iberia
Latin
Latin America (i) 0.508 0.498 0.662 0.010 2.0
America
North
North America (i) - - - - -
America
Europe e
Europe (i) 0.258 - 0.393 0.258 -
Nord Africa
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (i) - - - - - Asia and
Oceania
Number of Lost Time Injury (LTI)
and frequency rate(4)
Number of LTI (no.) 69 83 75 -14 -16.9 Enel
Accidents with absence from work by
geographical area
Italy (no.) 40 53 42 -13 -24.5 Italy
Iberia (no.) 2 2 2 - - Iberia
Latin
Latin America (no.) 25 28 26 -3 -10.7
America
North
North America (no.) - - - - -
America
Europe e
Europe (no.) 2 1 5 1 100.0
Nord Africa
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) - - - - - Asia and
Oceania
Accidents with absence from work frequency
(i) 0.56 0.68 0.60 -0.121 -17.8 Enel
rate (LTI FR)
Accidents with absence from work frequency
rate by geographical area
Italy (i) 0.68 0.94 0.75 -0.259 -27.6 Italy
Iberia (i) 0.12 0.12 0.12 -0.002 -1.6 Iberia
Latin
Latin America (i) 0.71 0.78 0.69 -0.065 -8.4
America
North
North America (i) - - - - -
America
Europe e
Europe (i) 0.26 0.11 0.49 0.154 145.3
Nord Africa
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (i) - - - - - Asia and
Oceania
Worked hours (no.) 123,624,403 123,421,139 125,263,914 203,264 0.2 Enel
Number of Total Recordable Injury (TRI)
and frequency rate(5)
Number of TRI by geographical area (no.) 153 157 196 -4 -2.5 Enel
Italy (no.) 41 57 51 -16 -28.1 Italy
Iberia (no.) 24 26 24 -2 -7.7 Iberia
Latin
Latin America (no.) 51 50 97 1 2.0
America
North
North America (no.) 30 20 9 10 50.0
America
Europe e
Europe (no.) 6 3 9 3 100.0
Nord Africa
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) 1 1 6 - - Asia and
Oceania
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
TRI frequency rate by geographical area (i) 1.24 1.27 1.56 -0.032 -2.5 Enel
Italy (i) 0.70 1.01 0.91 -0.309 -30.6 Italy
Iberia (i) 1.46 1.58 1.40 -0.120 -7.6 Iberia
Latin
Latin America (i) 1.44 1.38 2.57 0.057 4.1
America
North
North America (i) 7.78 5.85 2.87 1.928 32.9
America
Europe e
Europe (i) 0.77 0.32 0.88 0.453 142.9
Nord Africa
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (i) 0.64 0.67 4.93 -0.031 -4.6 Asia and
Oceania
403-9 Contractors
Number of fatal accidents and
frequency rate(1)
Number of fatal accidents (no.) 5 6 8 -1 -16.7 Enel
Fatal accidents by geographical area
Italy (no.) 1 1 1 - - Italy
Iberia (no.) - 1 1 -1 -100.0 Iberia
Latin
Latin America (no.) 4 4 6 - -
America
North
North America (no.) - - - - -
America
Europe (no.) - - - - - Europe
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) - - - - - Asia and
Oceania
Fatal accidents frequency rate (i) 0.016 0.020 0.029 -0.004 -20.0 Enel
Fatal accidents frequency rate by
geographical area
Italy (i) 0.018 0.019 0.022 -0.001 -5.3 Italy
Iberia (i) - 0.025 0.027 -0.025 -100.0 Iberia
Latin
Latin America (i) 0.021 0.022 0.036 -0.001 -4.5
America
Nord
North America (i) - - - - -
America
Europe (i) - - - - - Europe
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (i) - - - - - Asia and
Oceania
Number of Life Changing Accidents
(LCA) and frequency rate(2)
Number of Life Changing Accidents (LCA) (no.) 2 3 - -1 -33.3 Enel
Number of Life Changing Accidents by
geographical area
Italy (no.) - - - - - Italy
Iberia (no.) - 1 - -1 -100.0 Iberia
Latin
Latin America (no.) 2 2 - - -
America
North
North America (no.) - - - - -
America
Europe e
Europe (no.) - - - - -
Nord Africa
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) - - - - - Asia and
Oceania
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Life Changing Accidents frequency rate (LCA
(i) 0.007 0.010 - -0.003 -30.0 Enel
FR)
Life Changing Accidents frequency
(i)
rate by geographical area
Italy (i) - - - - - Italy
Iberia (i) - 0.025 - -0.025 -100.0 Iberia
Latin
Latin America (i) 0.011 0.011 - - -
America
North
North America (i) - - - - -
America
Europe e
Europe (i) - - - - -
Nord Africa
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (i) - - - - - Asia and
Oceania
Number of High Potential accidents (HPO)
and frequency rate(3)
Number of High Potential accidents (HPO) (no.) 24 32 40 -8 -25.0 Enel
Number of High Potential accidents (HPO) by
geographical area
Italy (no.) 9 2 9 7 350.0 Italy
Iberia (no.) 5 9 4 -4 -44.4 Iberia
Latin
Latin America (no.) 10 19 27 -9 -47.4
America
North
North America (no.) - 1 - -1 -100.0
America
Europe e
Europe (no.) - - - - -
Nord Africa
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) - 1 - -1 -100.0 Asia and
Oceania
High Potential accidents frequency rate (HPO
(i) 0.079 0.107 0.144 -0.028 -26.2 Enel
FR)
High Potential accidents frequency rate by
geographical area
Italy (i) 0.160 0.038 0.194 0.122 321.1 Italy
Iberia (i) 0.116 0.227 0.108 -0.111 -48.9 Iberia
Latin
Latin America (i) 0.054 0.105 0.160 -0.051 -48.6
America
North
North America (i) - 0.158 - -0.158 -100.0
America
Europe e
Europe (i) - - - - -
Nord Africa
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (i) - 0.104 - -0.104 -100.0 Asia and
Oceania
Number of accidents with absence of work
greater than 3 days and frequency rate
Number of accidents with absence from work
(no.) 93 119 115 -26 -21.8 Enel
for more than 3 days
Number of accidents with absence from work
for more than 3 days by geographical area
Italy (no.) 39 37 38 2 5.4 Italy
Iberia (no.) 17 28 17 -11 -39.3 Iberia
Latin
Latin America (no.) 35 49 59 -14 -28.6
America
North
North America (no.) 1 3 1 -2 -66.7
America
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Europe e
Europe (no.) - 1 - -1 -100.0
Nord Africa
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) 1 1 - - - Asia and
Oceania
Accidents with absence from work for more
(i) 0.31 0.40 0.41 -0.087 -21.9 Enel
than 3 days frequency rate
Accidents with absence from work for more
than 3 days frequency rate by geographical
area
Italy (i) 0.69 0.71 0.82 -0.015 -2.1 Italy
Iberia (i) 0.39 0.71 0.46 -0.315 -44.7 Iberia
Latin
Latin America (i) 0.19 0.27 0.35 -0.081 -29.9
America
North
North America (i) 0.16 0.48 0.16 -0.315 -66.3
America
Europe e
Europe (i) - 0.09 - -0.092 -100.0
Nord Africa
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (i) 0.15 0.10 - 0.046 44.2 Asia and
Oceania
Number of Lost Time Injury (LTI)
and frequency rate(4)
Number of LTI(5) (no.) 146 191 135 -45 -23.6 Enel
Accidents with absence from work by
geographical area
Italy (no.) 47 38 39 9 23.7 Italy
Iberia (no.) 18 29 18 -11 -37.9 Iberia
Latin
Latin America(5) (no.) 76 118 77 -42 -35.6
America
North
North America (no.) 4 3 1 1 33.3
America
Europe (no.) - 2 - -2 -100.0 Europe
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) 1 1 - - - Asia and
Oceania
Accidents with absence from work frequency
(i) 0.48 0.64 0.49 -0.157 -24.6 Enel
rate (LTI FR)
Accidents with absence from work frequency
rate by geographical area
Italy (i) 0.84 0.72 0.84 0.116 16.0 Italy
Iberia (i) 0.42 0.73 0.49 -0.310 -42.5 Iberia
Latin
Latin America (i) 0.41 0.65 0.46 -0.242 -37.1
America
North
North America (i) 0.64 0.48 0.16 0.165 34.7
America
Europe (i) - 0.18 - -0.184 -100.0 Europe
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (i) 0.15 0.10 - 0.046 44.2 Asia and
Oceania
Worked hours (no.) 304,222,701 299,940,403 278,069,115 4,282,298 1.4 Enel
Number of Total Recordable Injury (TRI)
and frequency rate(6)
Numero di Total Recordable Injury(5) (no.) 809 1,055 1,112 -246 -23.3 Enel
Number of TRI by geographical area
Italy (no.) 50 38 45 12 31.6 Italy
Iberia (no.) 107 109 75 -2 -1.8 Iberia
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Latin
Latin America(5) (no.) 534 711 861 -177 -24.9
America
North
North America (no.) 105 164 112 -59 -36.0
America
Europe e
Europe (no.) 2 7 6 -5 -71.4
Nord Africa
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) 11 26 13 -15 -57.7 Asia and
Oceania
TRI frequency rate (i) 2.66 3.52 4.00 -0.857 -24.4 Enel
TRI frequency rate
Italy (i) 0.89 0.72 0.97 0.166 22.9 Italy
Iberia (i) 2.48 2.75 2.02 -0.265 -9.7 Iberia
Latin
Latin America(5) (i) 2.86 3.93 5.11 -1.068 -27.2
America
North
North America (i) 16.77 25.95 18.15 -9.181 -35.4
America
Europe e
Europe (i) 0.38 0.64 0.42 -0.264 -41.0
Nord Africa
Africa,
Africa, Asia and Oceania (i) 1.63 2.71 2.24 -1.083 -39.9 Asia and
Oceania
(1) All Frequency Rates (FRs) are calculated by providing a ratio of the number of events per million hours worked.
(2) Life Changing Accidents (LCAs) are injuries that caused consequences to health that permanently changed a person’s life (for example, amputation of limbs,
paralysis, neurological damage, etc.).
(3) High Potential Accidents (HPOs) are injuries that, given their dynamics, have the potential to cause a Life-Changing or fatal event.
(4) Lost Time Injury (LTI) includes all the accident events that have resulted in at least one day of absence from work excluding the day the event occurred.
(5) The 2021 figures changed due to a reclassification of an event from the contractor to Enel.
(6) Total Recordable Injuries include fatalities, LCAs, LTIs and all other injuries that have required medical treatment.
Sound governance
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
2-1 SHAREHOLDERS
Composition of shareholdings
Investors(1)
Ministry of Economy and Finance (%) 23.6 23.6 23.6 - - Enel SpA
Institutional investors (%) 56.7 59.4 62.3 -2.7 - Enel SpA
Retail shareholders (%) 19.7 17.0 14.1 2.7 - Enel SpA
Location of institutional investors
Italy (%) 7.3 6.7 6.7 0.6 - Enel SpA
UK (%) 14.2 12.1 13.3 2.1 - Enel SpA
Rest of Europe (%) 27.3 29.0 27.2 -1.7 - Enel SpA
North America (%) 43.0 44.8 46.4 -1.8 - Enel SpA
Rest of the world (%) 8.2 7.4 6.4 0.8 - Enel SpA
Concentration index (Top 50) (%) 37.2 39.7 42.3 -2.5 - Enel SpA
Investment style of institutional investors
Long Only (%) 69.6 70.1 71.2 -0.5 - Enel SpA
Index (%) 13.3 13.5 12.7 -0.2 - Enel SpA
Hedge (%) 0.2 0.4 0.3 -0.2 - Enel SpA
Other (%) 16.2 16.0 15.8 0.2 - Enel SpA
Socially Responsible Investors (SRI)
Presence of SRI (no.) 245 252 244 -7 -2.8 Enel SpA
Enel shares held by SRI funds (mil) 1,510 1,484 1,482 26 1.8 Enel SpA
Weight of SRI funds in institutional
(%) 26.2 24.6 23.4 1.6 - Enel SpA
shareholdings(2)
Location of SRI investors(3)
Italy (%) 16.4 16.7 14.5 -0.3 - Enel SpA
UK (%) 11.9 9.7 11.7 2.2 - Enel SpA
Rest of Europe (%) 41.3 43.6 40.9 -2.3 - Enel SpA
North America (%) 24.4 26.0 26.6 -1.6 - Enel SpA
Rest of the world (%) 6.0 4.0 6.2 2.0 - Enel SpA
Share price performance
Financial performance of the share(4)
Enel (%) -28.6 -14.9 17.0 -13.7 - Enel SpA
FTSEMib (%) -13.3 23.0 -5.4 -36.3 - Enel SpA
Endesa (%) -12.7 -9.6 -6.1 -3.1 - Endesa
Enel
Enel Américas (ex Enersis) (%) 22.0 -19.8 -30.5 41.8 -
Américas
Enel Chile (%) 30.8 -46.0 -21.7 76.8 - Enel Chile
Ibex 35 (%) -5.6 7.9 -15.5 -13.5 - Enel SpA
MICEX (%) - 15.1 8.0 -15.1 - Enel SpA
IPSA (%) 22.1 3.1 -10.5 19.0 - Enel SpA
Return for the shareholder
DPS (cent euro) 0.40 0.38 0.36 0.02 5.3 Enel SpA
TSR (Total Shareholder Return) from IPO
(%) 158.6 239.1 281.2 -80.5 - Enel SpA
(accumulated)
TSR from IPO (annualized) (%) 4.2 5.7 6.5 -1.5 - Enel SpA
TSR last 2 years (accumulated) (%) -32.2 8.4 79.4 -40.6 - Enel SpA
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
TSR last 2 years (annualized) (%) -17.6 4.1 33.9 -21.7 - Enel SpA
Communication to shareholders
Information requests from retail
(no.) 51.0 56.0 40.0 -5.0 -8.9 Enel SpA
shareholders(5)
LENDERS
Debt
Total debt (mil euros) 60,068 51,693 45,415 8,375 16.2 Enel
Debt to Equity (i) 1.4 1.2 1.1 0.2 17.2 Enel
Rating
S&P (i) BBB+ BBB+ BBB+ - - Enel
Stable Stable
Outlook (i) Negative - - Enel
Outlook Outlook
Moody’s (i) Baa1 Baa1 Baa2 - - Enel
Outlook (i) Negative Positive Positive - - Enel
Fitch (i) BBB+ A- A- - - Enel
Stable Stable Stable
Outlook (i) - - Enel
Outlook Outlook Outlook
405-1 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Board of Directors (BoD)
Members of BoD by type (no.) 9 9 9 - - Enel SpA
Executive members (no.) 1 1 1 - - Enel SpA
Non-executive members (no.) 8 8 8 - - Enel SpA
- of whom independent(6) (no.) 8 8 7 - - Enel SpA
Women on BoD of the Group:
Women on the BoD of Enel SpA (no.) 4 4 4 - - Enel SpA
Women on the BoD of Group companies (no.) 76 247 208 -171 -69.2 Enel
Members of the BoD by age group
Under 30 years old (%) - - - - - Enel SpA
30 - 50 years old (%) 11 11 22 - - Enel SpA
Over 50 years old (%) 89 89 78 - - Enel SpA
BoD meetings(7) (no.) 16 16 16 - - Enel SpA
2-26 Implementation of the Code of Ethics(8)
Reports received by type of stakeholder: (no.) 172 153 151 19 12.4 Enel
Internal stakeholders (no.) 22 27 25 -5 -18.5 Enel
External stakeholders (no.) 19 24 22 -5 -20.8 Enel
Anonymous (no.) 131 102 104 29 28.4 Enel
Reports received for harmed or potentially
(no.) 172 153 151 19 12.4 Enel
harmed stakeholder:
Shareholder (no.) 48 67 55 -19 -28.4 Enel
Customer (no.) 12 7 3 5 71.4 Enel
Employee (no.) 74 51 64 23 45.1 Enel
General public (no.) 4 5 5 -1 -20.0 Enel
Suppliers (no.) 34 23 24 11 47.8 Enel
Reports received by status: (no.) 172 153 151 19 12.4 Enel
Reports being assessed (no.) 15 - - 15 - Enel
Reports for which a violation has not been
(no.) 128 109 125 19 17.4 Enel
confirmed
Reports for which a violation has been
(no.) 29 44 26 -15 -34.1 Enel
confirmed
Reports related to: (no.) 172 153 151 19 12.4 Enel
Conflict of interests/Bribery/Corruption (no.) 30 32 25 -2 -6.3 Enel
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Misappropriation (no.) 20 31 29 -11 -35.5 Enel
Work practices (no.) 96 71 79 25 35.2 Enel
Community and society (no.) 1 3 4 -2 -66.7 Enel
Other reasons (no.) 25 16 14 9 56.3 Enel
Violations confirmed by type of harmed
(no.) 29 44 26 -15 -34.1 Enel
stakeholder:
Shareholder (no.) 14 19 17 -5 -26.3 Enel
Customer (no.) 1 - - 1 - Enel
Employee (no.) 11 14 5 -3 -21.4 Enel
General public (no.) - 1 1 -1 -100.0 Enel
Suppliers (no.) 3 10 3 -7 -70.0 Enel
406-1 Violations related to incidents of: (no.) 29 44 26 -15 -34.1 Enel
Conflict of interests/Bribery/Corruption(9) (no.) 9 8 2 1 12.5 Enel
Misappropriation (no.) 4 5 14 -1 -20.0 Enel
Work practices (no.) 11 27 9 -16 -59.3 Enel
Community and society (no.) - 1 - -1 -100.0 Enel
Other reasons (no.) 5 3 1 2 66.7 Enel
Violations regarding incidents of conflict of
(no.) 9 8 2 1 12.5 Enel
interest/corruption, by country:
Argentina (no.) - - - - - Argentina
Brazil (no.) 2 - 2 2 - Brazil
Chile (no.) 2 - - 2 - Chile
Colombia (no.) 1 4 - -3 -75.0 Colombia
Italy (no.) 1 1 - - - Italy
Peru (no.) - - - - - Peru
Romania (no.) - - - - - Romania
Russia (no.) - 2 - -2 -100.0 Russia
Spain (no.) - 1 - -1 -100.0 Spain
India (no.) 1 - - 1 100.0 India
United
United States (no.) 1 - - 1 100.0
States
Panama (no.) 1 - - 1 100.0 Panama
Actions taken in response to incidents of
(no.) 9 10 2 -1 -10.0 Enel
conflict of interest/corruption
of which: actions taken against employees
in response to cases of conflict of interest/ (no.) 6 7 2 -1 -14.3 Enel
corruption
of which: actions taken against contractors
in response to cases of conflict of interest/ (no.) 3 3 - - - Enel
corruption
INSTITUTIONAL RELATIONS
201-4 Grants
Grants supplied in the period by geographic
(mil euros) 7.4 43.5 7.8 -36.1 -83.0 Enel
area
Italy (mil euros) 5.0 37.1 4.9 -32.1 -86.6 Italy
Romania (mil euros) - - - - - Romania
Spain (mil euros) 2.1 1.7 1.4 0.4 23.1 Spain
Brazil (mil euros) - 4.1 - - - Brazil
Colombia (mil euros) 0.37 - 1.0 0.4 - Colombia
Chile (mil euros) - 0.5 0.5 - - Chile
Energy networks (%) 60.9 55.7 49.7 5.2 9.5 Enel
R&D (%) 38.6 17.2 35.8 21.4 - Enel
GRI/ December December December
EUSS KPI UM 2022 2021 2020 2022-2021 % Scope
Renewable (%) - 20.9 12.3 -20.9 - Enel
Training (%) - 5.8 - - - Enel
Other (%) 0.5 0.3 2.3 0.2 40.2 Enel
Number of projects which received grants (no.) 37 100 48 -63.0 -63.0 Enel
Loans granted by the EIB and others
Remaining debt on loans from EIB and
(mil euros) 8,219 6,692 6,314 1,527 22.8 Enel
others by geographic area
- Italy (mil euros) 3,912 3,761 3,735 150.9 4.0 Italy
- Iberia (mil euros) 2,556 1,889 - 667.2 35.3 Iberia
Latin
- Latin America (mil euros) 1,209 823 - 386.0 46.9
America
Europe
- Europe and North Africa (mil euros) - 100 - -100.3 -100.0 and North
Africa
Africa Sub-
- Africa, Asia and Oceania (mil euros) - - - - - Sahariana
e Asia
North
- North America (mil euros) 542 132 - 410.0 -
America
Remaining debt on loans from EIB and
others by destination(9)
Energy networks (%) 52.0 60.4 62.9 -8.4 -13.9 Enel
R&D (%) 0.0 0.1 0.1 -0.1 - Enel
Renewable (%) 41.0 37.0 34.5 4.0 10.8 Enel
Training (%) - - - - - Enel
Other (%) 7.0 2.5 2.6 4.5 - Enel
Number of projects in progress approved
(no.) 212 147 138 65.0 44.2 Enel
with loans from EIB and others
Policy influence
Lobbying, interest representation or similar (euro) - - - - - Enel
Local, regional or national political
(euro) - - - - - Enel
campaigns / organizations / candidates
Trade associations or tax-exempt groups
(euro) 9,595,575.0 8,424,797 8,356,353 1,170,778.0 13.9 Enel
(e.g. think tanks)
Other (e.g. spending related to ballot
(euro) - - - - Enel
measures or referendums)
Total contributions and other spending (euro) 9,595,575.0 8,424,797 8,356,353 1,170,778.0 13.9 Enel
(1) The institutional investor is an entity that, under a specific mandate or on their own account, undertakes equity and/or property investment on a continuous
and professional basis. The category includes: mutual funds, pension funds, hedge funds, investment and merchant banks, insurance companies.
(2) Calculated comparing the number of shares held by identified Socially Responsible Investors (SRIs) with the number of shares held by identified institutional
investors.
(3) SRIs are investors who state that they include environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors in their traditional financial analyses in order to guide their
investment decisions (inclusion of at least one ESG criterion and adhesion to the main international principles approved by organizations such as UNPRI,
UKSIF, EUROSIF are among the key factors in order to classify an investor as an SRI).
(4) Calculated as the difference between the valuation on the last open market day of the year and the valuation of the previous year.
(5) Only requests received have been considered, not the responses provided.
(6) Directors qualified as independent pursuant to the Single Financial Act and the Italyn Corporate Governance Code (Edition 2020)
(7) Of these, 12 meetings were held in 2022 on sustainability issues.
(8) During the year, the verification of all the reports received in 2021 was completed: the number of confirmed violations for 2021 was therefore revised from 41
to 44. The three additional violations are to be ascribed to a case of conflict of interest and two cases of inappropriate behavior related to labor practices.
(9) Corruption consists of the abuse of power with the goal of private gain and can be instigated by individuals in the public or private sector. It is interpreted
here as including corrupt practices such as bribery, fraud, extortion, collusion, conflicts of interest and money laundering.
GRI Content Index
Statement of use Enel SpA has reported in accordance with the GRI Standards for the period 1 January 2022 – 31 December
2022
GRI 1 used GRI 1: Foundation 2021
Applicable GRI Sector Standard(s) Electric Utilities Disclosure 2013
Location Omissions
GRI Standards Disclosure Part Omitted Reason Explanation
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
The organization and its reporting practices
Pg. 12-13; 390;
448; Sustainability
2-1 Organizational details
Statement sec. Sound
governance
Entities included in the organization’s
2-2 Pg. 448; 454
sustainability reporting
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point Pg. 448; 454
2-4 Restatements of information Pg. 448; 454
2-5 External assurance Pg. 558-562
Activities and workers
Activities, value chain and other business Pg. 12-13; 164-165;
2-6
relationships 239; 248; 454
Pg. 212-213;
Sustainability
2-7 Employees Statement sec.
Empowering Enel
people
Sustainability
Statement sec.
2-8 Workers who are not employees
Empowering Enel
people
Governance
GRI 2: General Pg. 29-30; 111-113;
Disclosures 2021 309; 390-394;
2-9 Governance structure and composition Sustainability
Statement sec. Sound
governance
Nomination and selection of the highest
2-10 Pg. 30-31; 394
governance body
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body Pg. 392-394
Pg. 29-31; 48; 111-114;
Role of the highest governance body in
2-12 309-311; 351-354;
overseeing the management of impacts
394; 396-398
Delegation of responsibility for managing Pg. 29-31; 111-114;
2-13
impacts 309-312; 392-394
Role of the highest governance body in
2-14 Pg. 29-31; 392-394
sustainability reporting
2-15 Conflicts of interest Pg. 396-397; 411-413
2-16 Communication of critical concerns Pg. 394; 411-413
Collective knowledge of the highest governance Pg. 30-31; 390-391;
2-17
body 394
Evaluation of the performance of the highest Pg. 30-31; 390-391;
2-18
governance body 394
2-19 Remuneration policies Pg. 111-114; 394-395
2-20 Process to determine remuneration Pg. 111-114; 394-395
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio Pg. 111-114; 394-395
Strategy, policies and practices
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy Pg. 8-9
2-23 Policy commitments Pg. 351-356; 411-413
Pg. 29-31; 111-114;
189-207; 212-214;
2-24 Embedding policy commitments
252-254; 309-312;
351-353; 378-381
Pg. 174; 189-207;
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts
364-372
Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising Pg. 174; 189-207;
2-26
concerns 364-372
Pg. 346; Sustainability
GRI 2: General
Statement sec. Zero
Disclosures 2021
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations emissions ambition,
Conservation of
natural capital
2-28 Membership associations Pg. 31-33; 103-110
Stakeholder engagement
Pg. 48-51; 52-58; 173-
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement 174; 220; 262-254;
360-362; 390-391
Pg. 233-234;
Sustainability
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements Statement sec.
Empowering Enel
people
Material Topics
Pg. 34; 48-51; 52-56;
3-1 Process to determine material topics 57-58; 59-60; 448-
449; 452
GRI 3: Material
Pg. 34; 57-58; 59-60;
Topics 2021 3-2 List of material topics
448-449; 452
Pg. 34; 48-51; 59-60;
3-3 Management of material topics
452
Material Topics
200 series (Economic Topics)
Economic Performance
GRI 3: Material Pg. 17; 48; 94; 115;
3-3 Management of material topics
Topics 2021 130; 133; 396
Pg. 17; Sustainability
Direct economic value generated and Statement sec. We
201-1
distributed empower sustainable
progress
Financial implications and other risks and Pg. 48; 94; 115; 130;
GRI 201: 201-2 opportunities due to climate change 133; 396
Economic
Performance Sustainability
2016 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Statement sec.
retirement plans Empowering Enel
people
Sustainability
201-4 Financial assistance received from government Statement sec. Sound
governance
Indirect Economic Impacts
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 256
Topics 2021
Pg. 256; Sustainability
GRI 203:
Investments in infrastructure and supported Statement
Indirect Economic 203-1
services sec. Engaging
Impacts 2016
communities
Procurement Practices
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 239-240
Topics 2021
Sustainability
GRI 204:
Statement sec.
Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers
Sustainable supply
Practices 2016
chain
Anti-corruption
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 411-413
Topics 2021
Operations assessed for risks related to
205-1 Pg. 411-413
corruption
Pg. 411-413;
Sustainability
Communication and training about
GRI 205: 205-2 Statement sec.
anticorruption policies and procedures
Anticorruption Empowering Enel
2016 people
Pg. 411-413;
Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions Sustainability
205-3
taken Statement sec. Sound
governance
Anti-competitive Behavior
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 411-413
Topics 2021
13 legal actions have
GRI 206:
Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, been recorded in 2022
Anticompetitive 206-1
anti-trust, and monopoly practices (10 in Italy and 3 in
Behavior 2016
Iberia)
Tax
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 416-417
Topics 2021
207-1 Approach to tax Pg. 416-417
Tax governance, control, and risk management
207-2 Pg. 416-417; 419-421
due to climate change
GRI 207: Tax 2019
Stakeholder engagement and management of
207-3 Pg. 416-417; 421-422
concerns related to tax
207-4 Country-by-country reporting Pg. 423-444
300 series (Environmental Topics)
Materials
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 248; 293-295
Topics 2021
Pg. 248; Sustainability
Statement sec. Zero
emissions ambition,
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Conservation of
natural capital;
Sustainable supply
GRI 301: chain
Materials 2016
Pg. 293-295;
Sustainability
Statement sec. Zero
301-2 Recycled input materials used
emissions ambition,
Conservation of
natural capital
Energy
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 345-346
Topics 2021
Pg. 345-346;
Sustainability
Statement sec. Zero
GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization emissions ambition,
2016 Conservation of
natural capital
302-3 Energy intensity Pg. 345-346
Water and effluents
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 155; 334-338
Topics 2021
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Pg. 334-338
Management of water discharge-related
303-2 Pg. 334-338
impacts
Pg. 155; 334-338;
Sustainability
Statement sec. Zero
303-3 Water withdrawal
emissions ambition,
Conservation of
GRI 303: Water natural capital
and Effluents
Sustainability
2018
Statement sec. Zero
303-4 Water discharge emissions ambition,
Conservation of
natural capital
Sustainability
Statement sec. Zero
303-5 Water consumption emissions ambition,
Conservation of
natural capital
Biodiversity
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 319-332
Topics 2021
Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or
304-1 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high Pg. 319-332
biodiversity value outside protected areas
Significant impacts of activities, products, and
GRI 304: 304-2 services on biodiversity Pg. 319-332
Biodiversity 2016
304-3 Habitats protected or restored Pg. 319-332
IUCN Red List species and national conservation
304-4 list species with habitats in areas affected by Pg. 319-332
operations
Emissions
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 148-151; 332-333
Topics 2021
Pg. 148-151;
Sustainability
Statement sec. Zero
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
emissions ambition,
Conservation of
natural capital
Pg. 148-151;
Sustainability
Statement sec. Zero
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
emissions ambition,
Conservation of
natural capital
Pg. 148-151;
Sustainability
Statement sec. Zero
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
emissions ambition,
Conservation of
natural capital
Pg. 148-151;
Sustainability
GRI 305:
Statement sec. Zero
Emissions 2016 305-4 GHG emissions intensity
emissions ambition,
Conservation of
natural capital
Sustainability
Statement sec. Zero
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions emissions ambition,
Conservation of
natural capital
Pg. 148-151;
Sustainability
Statement sec. Zero
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS)
emissions ambition,
Conservation of
natural capital
Pg. 332-333;
Sustainability
Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and Statement sec. Zero
305-7
other significant air emissions emissions ambition,
Conservation of
natural capital
Waste
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 339-342
Topics 2021
Waste generation and significant wasterelated
306-1 Pg. 339-342
impacts
Management of significant wasterelated
306-2 Pg. 339-342
impacts
Pg. 339-342;
Sustainability
Statement sec. Zero
306-3 Waste generated
emissions ambition,
Conservation of
GRI 306: Waste natural capital
2020
Sustainability
Statement sec. Zero
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal emissions ambition,
Conservation of
natural capital
Sustainability
Statement sec. Zero
306-5 Waste directed to disposal emissions ambition,
Conservation of
natural capital
Supplier Environmental Assessment
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 239-242
Topics 2021
GRI 308: Supplier
New suppliers that were screened using
Environmental 308-1 Pg. 239-242
environmental criteria
Assessment 2016
400 series (SocialTopics)
Employment
GRI 3: Material Pg. 12-15; 212-213;
3-3 Management of material topics
Topics 2021 230-232
Pg. 12-15; 212-
213; Sustainability
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Statement sec.
Empowering Enel
people
GRI 401:
Benefits provided to full-time employees that
Employment
401-2 are not provided to temporary or part-time Pg. 230-232
2016
employees
Sustainability
Statement sec.
401-3 Parental leave
Empowering Enel
people
Labor/Management Relations
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 233-234
Topics 2021
GRI 402: Labor/
Minimum notice periods regarding operational
Management 402-1 Pg. 233-234
changes
Relations 2016
Occupational Health and Safety
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 378-387
Topics 2021
Occupational health and safety management
403-1 Pg. 378-383
system
Hazard identification, risk assessment, and
403-2 Pg. 378-383
incident investigation
403-3 Occupational health services Pg. 383-384
Worker participation, consultation, and
403-4 communication on occupational health and Pg. 387
safety
GRI 403:
Occupational 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and Pg. 384-385
Health and Safety safety
2018
403-6 Promotion of worker health Pg. 378-387
Prevention and mitigation of occupational
403-7 health and safety impacts directly linked by Pg. 378-387
business relationships
Pg. 378-387;
Sustainability
403-9 Work-related injuries Statement sec.
Occupational health
and safety
Training and Education
GRI 3: Material Pg. 12-15; 212-213;
3-3 Management of material topics
Topics 2021 216-219
Pg. 12-15; 212-213;
216-219; Sustainability
Average hours of training per year per
404-1 Statement sec.
employee
Empowering Enel
GRI 404: Training
people
and Education
2016 Programs for upgrading employee skills and
404-2 Pg. 216-219
transition assistance programs
Percentage of employees receiving regular
404-3 Pg. 216-219
performance and career development reviews
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
GRI 3: Material Pg. 12-15; 212-213;
3-3 Management of material topics
Topics 2021 220-227
Pg. 12-15; 212-213;
220-223; Sustainability
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Statement sec.
Empowering Enel
GRI 405: Diversity people
and Equal
Opportunity 2016 Pg. 224-227;
Sustainability
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of
405-2 Statement sec.
women to men
Empowering Enel
people
Non-discrimination
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 411-413
Topics 2021
Pg. 411-413;
GRI 406:
Incidents of discrimination and corrective Sustainability
Nondiscrimination 406-1
actions taken Statement sec. Sound
2016
governance
Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 239-240; 351
Topics 2021
GRI 407: Freedom
Operations and suppliers in which the right
of Association
407-1 to freedom of association and collective Pg. 239-240; 351
and Collective
bargaining may be at risk
Bargaining 2016
Child Labor
GRI 3: Material Pg. 239-240; 351;
3-3 Management of material topics
Topics 2021 411-413
GRI 408: Child Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Pg. 239-240; 351;
408-1
Labor 2016 incidents of child labor 411-413
Forced or Compulsory Labor
GRI 3: Material Pg. 239-240; 351;
3-3 Management of material topics
Topics 2021 411-413
GRI 409: Forced
Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Pg. 239-240; 351;
or Compulsory 409-1
incidents of forced or compulsory labor 411-413
Labor 2016
Security Practices
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 351; 354
Topics 2021
All Enel people are
involved in training
about sustainability
issues, of which
human rights are a
GRI 410: Security Security personnel trained in human rights fundamental element.
410-1
Practices 2016 policies or procedures All suppliers sign
specific clauses
concerning human
rights and commit to
complying with the
associated policy
Rights of Indigenous Peoples
GRI 3: Material Pg. 252-254; 351;
3-3 Management of material topics
Topics 2021 365-372
No violations of the
GRI 411: Rights
Incidents of violations involving rights of rights of indigenous
of Indigenous 411-1
indigenous peoples peoples have been
Peoples 2016
reported
Local Communities
GRI 3: Material Pg. 252-254; 351;
3-3 Management of material topics
Topics 2021 365-372; 411-413
Pg. 252-254; 351;
365-372; 411-413
The assets of the
generation park in
Operations with local community engagement, thermoelectric and
GRI 413: Local 413-1 impact assessments, and development renewable operation
Communities programs are managed using
2016 sustainable plant
and design and
construction site
models
Operations with significant actual and potential Pg. 252-254; 351;
413-2
negative impacts on local communities 365-372; 411-413
Supplier Social Assessment
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 239-242
Topics 2021
GRI 414:
New suppliers that were screened using social
Supplier Social 414-1 Pg. 239-242
criteria
Assessment 2016
Public Policy
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 411-413
Topics 2021
Enel does not have
direct relations with
political parties and
does not provide
financing of any
kind, as explicitly
established at point
2.2 of the Zero
Tolerance of
GRI 415: Public
415-1 Political contributions Corruption Plan
Policy 2016
and at point 3.26 of
the Group’s Code
of Ethics. Some
exceptions can
be found in some
countries following
the local law and
subject to analysis
by the due bodies
Customer Health and Safety
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 386
Topics 2021
Pg. 386
New products and
services are assessed
in terms of potential
GRI 416: impact on health and
Assessment of the health and safety impacts of
Customer Health 416-1 safety throughout the
product and service categories
and Safety 2016 value chain, in order to
minimize that impact,
as confirmed by point
2.2.2 of the Human
Rights Policy
Marketing and Labeling
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 173-175
Topics 2021
All the Group sale
companies comply
with the transparency
obligations envisaged
by various national
and supranational
Requirements for product and service
417-1 regulations regarding
information and labeling
the source of the
electricity sold. Energy
GRI 417: bills must specify the
Marketing and mix of energy sources
Labeling 2016 used and the source
of the energy
In 2022 there were
no cases of non
compliance with
Incidents of non-compliance concerning regulations or
417-3
marketing communications voluntary codes
relating to the Enel
Group marketing
activities
Customer Privacy
GRI 3: Material
3-3 Management of material topics Pg. 351; 413
Topics 2021
GRI 418: Substantiated complaints concerning breaches
Customer Privacy 418-1 of customer privacy and losses of customer Pg. 351; 413
2016 data
General standard disclosures for the electric utility sector
General standard
disclosures for
the electric utility Page number(s)/URL/
sector Direct answer
Pg. 12-15; 153; 168; Sustainability Statement sec.
EU1
We empower sustainable progress
Pg. 12-15; 153; 168; Sustainability Statement sec.
EU2
We empower sustainable progress
Pg. 153; 164-165; 172; Sustainability Statement sec.
EU3
Clean electrification
Pg. 153; 164-165; 170; Sustainability Statement sec.
EU4
We empower sustainable progress
Specific standard disclosures for the electric utility sector
Category: economic
MATERIAL ASPECT: DEMAND SIDE MANAGEMENT
DMA Pg. 170
MATERIAL ASPECT: RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
DMA Pg. 267; Sustainability Statement sec. Innovation
MATERIAL ASPECT: SYSTEM EFFICIENCY
Pg. 153; Sustainability Statement sec. Clean
EU11
electrification
EU12 Sustainability Statement sec. Clean electrification
Category: social
Sub-category: labor practices and decent work
Material aspect: employment
DMA Pg. 216-219
DMA Pg. 384-385
EU15 Sustainability Statement sec. Empowering Enel people
EU18 Pg. 384-385
Sub-category: society
Material aspect: local communities
DMA Pg. 365-372
EU22 Pg. 365-372
Material aspect: disaster/emergency planning and response
DMA Pg. 386
Sub-category: product responsibility
Material aspect: customer health and safety
Pg. 386; Sustainability Statement sec. Occupational
EU25
health and safety
Material aspect: access
DMA Pg. 172
Italy: 0%
Spain: 0%
Argentina: 0.7%
EU26 Brazil: 0%
Chile: 0.8%
Colombia: 0.1%
Peru: 4.1%
EU27 Sustainability Statement sec. Clean electrification
EU28 Sustainability Statement sec. Clean electrification
EU29 Sustainability Statement sec. Clean electrification
Pg. 153; Sustainability Statement sec. Clean
EU30
electrification
Material aspect: provision of information
DMA Pg. 174-176
SASB Content Index
The following table shows the main indicators required by the Value Reporting Foundation - SASB standard in relation to
the primary sector of reference for Enel: “Electric Utilities & Power Generators Sector”.
The table shows, where present, the reference to the GRI indicator with which the disclosure required by the SASB was
covered, as well as references to the chapters of the 2022 Sustainability Report.
SECTOR: ELECTRIC UTILITIES & POWER GENERATORS SECTOR
Reference
Topic Code Accounting Metric 2022 2021 2020 Variation GRI
ecruoseR
ygrenE
& snoissimE
saG
esuohneerG
gninnalP
(1) Gross global Scope 1 emissions (MtCO ) 53.1 51.6 45.6 1.5
2eq
(2) Percentage covered under emissions-limiting
75.8 61.5 53.0 14.3
IF-EU-110a.1 regulations (%)** 305-1
(3) Percentage covered under emissions-reporting
100.0 100.0 100.0 -
regulations (%)
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated with IF-EU-110a.2 80.5 74.7 68 5.8 305-3
power deliveries (Mt) CO-e***
2
Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy
or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions Sustainability Report 2022, chapter
IF-EU-110a.3 201-2
reduction targets, and an analysis of performance “Zero emissions ambition”
against those targets
(1) Number of customers served in markets subject
IF-EU-110a.4 to renewable portfolio standards (RPS) N/A US regulation not applicable
(2) percentage fulfillment of RPS target by market
ytilauQ
riA
Air emissions of the following pollutants:
74,225 78,846 76,257 -4,621
(1) NO (excluding NO), (t)
x 2
(2) SO 16,602 15,615 20,547 987
x
(3) particulate matter (PM10, related to thermal
1,227 1,099 1,242 128
IF-EU-120a.1 generation) (t) 305-7
(4) lead (Pb) N/A N/A N/A -
(5) mercury (Hg from coal plants) (t) 0,08 0,05 0,05 0,03
(6) percentage of each in or near areas of dense
N/A
population
tnemeganaM
retaW
(1) Total water withdrawn (Mm³) 76.0 73.1 69.1 2.9 303-3 a
(2) total water consumed (Mm³) 45.2 43.8 37.9 1.4 303-5 a
IF-EU-140a.1
3) percentage of each in regions with High or 19.3 23.0 19.5 -3.7 303-3
Extremely High Baseline Water Stress**** (%) 20.6 24.0 21.9 -3.5 303-5
Number of incidents of non-compliance associated
IF-EU-140a.2 with water quantity and/or quality permits, 5 9 N/A -4 303-4 d
standards, and regulations
Description of water management risks and
Sustainability Report 2022, chapter 303-1
IF-EU-140a.3 discussion of strategies and practices to mitigate
“Conservation of natural capital” 303-2
those risks
hsA
laoC
tnemeganaM
1) Amount of coal combustion residuals (CCR)
1.18 0.79 0.78 0.39 306-3
IF-EU-150a.1 generated (Mt)
2) percentage recycled (%) 82.0 70.0 71.0 12.0 306-4
Total number of coal combustion residual (CCR)
IF-EU-150a.2 impoundments, broken down by hazard potential N/A EPA methodology not applicable
classification and structural integrity assessment
SECTOR: ELECTRIC UTILITIES & POWER GENERATORS SECTOR
Reference
Topic Code Accounting Metric 2022 2021 2020 Variation GRI
ytilibadroffA
ygrenE
IF-EU-240a.1 Average electric rate for customers (R) N/A
Typical monthly electric bill for residential
IF-EU-240a.2 customers for (1) 500 kWh and (2) 1,000 kWh of Consumption rates not representative for European market
electricity delivered per month
1) Number of residential customer electric
3,709,777 2,373,491 1,330,504 1,336,286
IF-EU-240a.3 disconnections for non-payment (u)***** EU27
2) percentage reconnected within 30 days 91,9 N/A N/A -
DMA EU
(former EU7)
DMA EU
Discussion of impact of external factors on
(former
IF-EU-240a.4 customer affordability of electricity, including the Sustainability Report 2022, chapter “Clean electrification”
EU23)
economic conditions of the service territory
3-3
102-43
102-44
ecrofkroW
ytefaS
&
htlaeH
(1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR), 0.52 2.86 3.243 -2.34
IF-EU-320a.1 (2) fatality rate - 0.024 0.008 -0.024 403-9
(3) near miss frequency rate (NMFR) 4.887 4.286 4.918 0.601
&
ycneicffiE
esU-dnE
dnameD
Percentage of electric utility revenues from rate
F-EU-420a.1 structures that (1) are decoupled and (2) contain a N/A US regulation
lost revenue adjustment mechanism (LRAM)
Percentage of electric load served by smart grid
F-EU-420a.2 70.3 70.4 N/A -0,1
technology******
Customer electricity savings from efficiency
F-EU-420a.3 N/A Available from 2023 reporting cycle
measures, by market (megawatt hours)
&
ytefaS
raelcuN
tnemeganaM
ycnegremE
(1) Total number of nuclear power units that are 4 4 4 -
owned and/or operated
IF-EU-540a.1
(2) Total number of nuclear power units, broken
down by U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) N/A US regulation
Action Matrix Column
DMA EU
Description of efforts to manage nuclear safety and Sustainability Report 2022, chapter
IF-EU-540a.2 former
emergency preparedness “Occupational health and safety”
EU21
dirG
ycneiliseR
Number of incidents of non-compliance with
F-EU-550a.1 physical and/or cybersecurity standards or - 15 0
regulations EU29
(1) System Average Interruption Duration Index
230.7 243.3 N/A -12.6
(SAIDI),
(2) System Average Interruption Frequency Index
IF-EU-550a.2 2.6 2.8 N/A -0.2 EU28
(SAIFI)
(3) Customer Average Interruption Duration Index
89 N/A N/A -
(CAIDI), inclusive of major event days
SECTOR: ELECTRIC UTILITIES & POWER GENERATORS SECTOR
Reference
Topic Code Accounting Metric 2022 2021 2020 Variation GRI
Number of: (1) residential, (2) commercial, and (3)
IF-EU-000.A 66,784,895 69,342,818 69,517,932 -2,557,923 EU3
industrial customers served
Total electricity delivered to:
113,533 N/A N/A -
(1) residential
Total electricity delivered to:
158,932 N/A N/A -
(2) industrial and commercial
IF-EU-000.B
Total electricity delivered to:
N/A N/A N/A -
(4) all other retail customers,
Total electricity delivered to:
N/A N/A N/A -
(5) wholesale customers
IF-EU-000.C Length of transmission and distribution lines (km) 2,024,038 2,233,368 2,232,022 -209,330 EU4
(1) Total electricity generated (GW) 227,767 222,605 207,108 5,161,59
(2) Percentage by major energy source - coal 8.7 N/A N/A -
(2) Percentage by major energy source - oil 2.2 N/A N/A -
(2) Percentage by major energy source - gas 4.2 N/A N/A -
(2) Percentage by major energy source - nuclear 11.6 N/A N/A -
(2) Percentage by major energy source - hydro 22.7 N/A N/A -
IF-EU-000.D EU2
(2) Percentage by major energy source - solar 5.0 N/A N/A -
(2) Percentage by major energy source - wind 19.0 N/A N/A -
(2) Percentage by major energy source -
2.7 N/A N/A -
geothermal
(2) Percentage by major energy source - biomass - N/A N/A -
(3) percentage in regulated markets N/A N/A N/A -
IF-EU-000.E Total wholesale electricity purchased******* (MWh) 84,659,900 70,934,310 47,506,376,44 13,725,590
Key
N/A: Not applicable.
N/A: Not available.
* Unaudited for indicators not corresponding to GRI Standards.
** The 2022 value also includes CO emissions from thermal power plants in Chile as they are covered by the “green tax system” (Sistema de Impuestos Verdes).
2
*** The value considers direct emissions from the generation of electricity in proprietary plants and also indirect emissions from the purchase of electricity and
sales to the end customer.
**** In water stressed areas are included plants located in areas classifies as “arid“ from WRI.
***** For full details see the chapter “Clean electrification” – “Sustainability Statement”.
****** Data available starting from 2021 reporting cycle. The value is calculated as: total energy billed with Smart Meters / total energy billed.
******* The value considers wholesale electricity purchased from the Global Trading Business Line.
TCFD Content Index
Reflecting the Group’s commitment to climate change related disclosures, the following table shows the alignment of
Enel’s disclosure with respect to the Task force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) of the Financial Stability
Board, which published specific recommendations for the voluntary reporting of the financial impact of climate risks in
June 2017.
RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE TCFD (TASK FORCE Zero emissions ambition
ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES) (LINK: Sustainability Report)
Enel’s governance model to face climate change
Disclosure a) Competences of corporate bodies
Governance
Disclosure b) Enel’s organizational model
Incentive system
Climate change and long-term scenarios
Disclosure c) Energy transition scenarios
The physical climate scenario
Strategy
The strategy to tackle climate change
Disclosure b)
Medium and long-term strategy
Disclosure c)
Short-term strategy - Investment Plan 2023-2025
Disclosure a)
Risks and opportunities connected with climate change
Disclosure a) Transition phenomena: business effects, risks and opportunities
Risk Management Disclosure b) Physical phenomena: Identification, assessment and management of risks
Disclosure c) and opportunities
Enel’s performance in fighting against climate change
Our carbon footprint
Financial, operational and environmental metrics
Disclosure a)
Financial and operational targets
Metrics & Targets Disclosure b)
Disclosure c)
Enel’s roadmap to decarbonization and electrification
European Commission Guidelines on
reporting climate-related information -
Content Index
Reflecting the Group’s commitment to climate change related disclosures, the following table shows the alignment
of Enel’s disclosure with respect to “Guidelines on reporting climate-related information” published by the European
Commission in June 2019.
EUROPEAN COMMISSION GUIDELINES ON ZERO EMISSIONS AMBITION
REPORTING CLIMATE-RELATED INFORMATION (LINK: Sustainability Report)
Enel’s impact on climate change
Climate change and long-term scenarios
Energy transition scenarios
Business model The physical climate scenario
The strategy to tackle climate change
Medium and long-term strategy
Short-term strategy - Investment Plan 2023-2025
Advocacy about climate change policies
Enel’s commitment to fight against climate change through associations and organizations
Policies and Due Diligence Process
Enel's governance model to face climate change
Competences of corporate bodies
Enel's organizational model
Incentive system
Zero emissions ambition
Outcomes
Enel's roadmap to decarbonization and electrification
Risks and opportunities connected with climate change
Principal Risks and their management Transition phenomena: business effects, risks and opportunities
Physical phenomena: identification, assessment and management of risks and opportunities
Enel's performance in fighting against climate change
Our carbon footprint
Key Performance Indicators
Financial, operational and environmental metrics
Financial and operational targets
WEF Content Index
The International Business Council (IBC) of the World Economic Forum published, in 2020, a report, called ‘Measuring
Stakeholder Capitalism: Towards Common Metrics and Consistent Reporting of Sustainable Value Creation’
(https://www.weforum.org/reports/measuring-stakeholdercapitalism-towards-common-metrics-andconsistent-
reporting-of-sustainable-valuecreation), with the aim of defining shared common metrics to measure, report and
compare the levels of sustainability, in other words the effectiveness of its actions in pursuing the sustainable
development goals indicated by the UN (SDG), in the business model adopted to create value for stakeholders. The
metrics are based on existing standards and aim to increase convergence and comparability between the various
parameters used in sustainability reports. The following table provides information on the 21 primary indicators (“core”)
indicated in the report and references to the chapters of the 2022 Sustainability Report.
Sustainability Report 2022
Ref. chapters/paragraphs
Pillar Theme Core KPIs 21 Core KPIs WEF 2022 2021 Variation for 21 Core KPIs WEF
Governing “We empower sustainable
Setting purpose
purpose progress”
Quality of Governance body Women on Board of Directors
4 4 - “Sound governance”
governing body composition (no.)
Material topics
Stakeholder “We empower sustainable
impacting
engagement progress”
stakeholders
Employees who received training
about anti-corruption policies 47.0 30.3 16.7
Anti-corruption and procedures (%)
Principles
Ascertained violations related to
of Governance Ethical behavior conflict of interest/corruption (no.) 9 8 1 “Sound governance”
Protected
ethics advice Reports received related to
172 153 19
and reporting violations of the Code of Ethics
mechanisms
Risk and Integrating risk and
opportunity opportunity into “Sound governance”
oversight business process
Direct greenhouse gas
53.1 51.6 1.5
emissions- Scope 1 (mil t )
eq
Indirect greenhouse gas
emissions- Scope 2 - Purchased
4.0 3.8 0.2
Greenhouse Gas electricity from the grid (location
(GHG) emissions based) (mil t )
eq “Zero emissions ambition”
Indirect greenhouse gas
Climate change emissions - Scope 2 - Purchased
6.1 6.1 -
electricity from the grid (market
based) (mil t )
eq
Indirect greenhouse gas
75.8 70.5 5.3
emissions - Scope 3 (mil t )
eq
TCFD
Planet implementation
Land use and
Nature loss ecological Hectares restored (ha) 9,452 9,092 360 “Conservation of natural capital”
sensitivity
Water withdrawal (m3) 76.0 73.1 2.9
Water Water withdrawal in “water
Freshwater consumption stressed” areas (%) 19.3 23.0 -3.7 “Conservation of natural
and withdrawal in capital”; “Sustainability
availability water-stressed Total water consumption (mil m3) 45.2 43.8 1.4 Statement”
areas
Water consumption in “water
20.6 24.0 -3.4
stressed” areas (%)
Sustainability Report 2022
Ref. chapters/paragraphs
Pillar Theme Core KPIs 21 Core KPIs WEF 2022 2021 Variation for 21 Core KPIs WEF
Diversity and Women incidence on total
23.4 22.5 0.9
inclusion employees (%) “Empowering Enel people”;
“Sustainability Statement”
Pay equality Equal Remuneration Ratio (%) 80.7 81.1 -0.4
Dignity and
equality Wage level CEO Pay Ratio (%)(1) 60.0 90.0 -30.0 “Report on Remuneration Policy”
Evaluation among the supply
Risk for incidents
chain of child labour defense and “Sound governance”;
of child, forced or
of compulsory or forced work “Sustainable supply chain”
compulsory labor
prohibition
Fatal accidents - Enel (no.) 1 3 -2
People Fatalities frequency rate - Enel (i) 0.008 0.024 -0.016
“Occupational health and
H bee ia nl gth and well- Health and safety “ (nL oif .e
)
Changing” injuries - Enel - 1 -1 s Sa tafe tety m”;
e
“ nS tu ”stainability
“Life Changing” injuries
- 0.008 -0.008
frequency rate - Enel (i)
Average hours of training per
47.4 44.6 2.8
Skills for the employee (h/per cap) “Empowering Enel people”;
Training provided
future Employees training cost “Sustainability Statement”
30 23 7
(mil euros)
People hired (no.) 6,412 5,401 1,011
Absolute number Hiring rate (%) 9.8 8.1 1.7 “Empowering Enel people”;
and rate of
employment Terminations (no.) 4,414 5,862 -1,448 “Sustainability Statement”
Turnover (%) 6.8 8.8 -2.0
Employment
and wealth Economic “Sustainability Statement”
generation contribution
Total investments (mil euros) 14,347 12,997 1,350 “Sustainability Statement”
Financial
Prosperity investment Purchase of treasury shares and
contribution dividends and interim dividends 5,038 5,054 -16 Consolidated financial
statements
paid to holders of hybrid bonds
Innovation in
Total R&D Investments in research and “Innovation”; “Sustainability
better products 105 130 -25
expenses development (mil euros) Statement”
and services
Community and
Total tax paid Total tax paid (mil euros)(2) 4,778 4,082 696 “Tax transparency”
social vitality
(1) Ratio between the total remuneration of the CEO/General Manager of Enel and the average gross annual remuneration of Group employees. In order to ensure
that the figures for 2022 and 2021 are comparable, the 2021 figure has been adjusted by applying the 2022 exchange rate to the 2021 remuneration data.
(2) The amount represents “total tax borne”, which is costs for taxes borne by the Group. For more information, see the 2022 Sustainability Report and the
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement. The 2021 figure has been calculated more accurately.
Sustainable Finance Disclosure
Regulation (PAI) Content Index
PAI (Principal Adverse Impact) indicators, according to the “Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation”, Regulation (EU)
2019/2088
ISSUE INDICATORS 2022 VALUE 2021 VALUE CHAPTER REFERENCE
For further information, see
Scope 1 – Total direct
53,07 51,57 the “Zero emissions ambition”
emissions, mil t
eq chapter
Scope 2, location-based For further information, see
– Total indirect emissions, 4,02 3,77 the “Zero emissions ambition”
mil t chapter
eq
For further information, see
Scope 2, market-based –
6,06 6,11 the “Zero emissions ambition”
Total indirect issues, mil t
eq chapter
For further information, see
Scope 3 – Total indirect
75,80 70,46 the “Zero emissions ambition”
emissions, mil t
eq chapter
Indicator not directly applicable to Enel, because it is calculated by the investor on the basis
2. Carbon footprint
of the above data.
3. GHG intensity of Indicator not directly applicable to Enel, because it is calculated by the investor on the basis
investee companies of the above data.
4. Exposure to companies
GREENHOUSE GAS
active in the fossil fuel Indicator not applicable to Enel.
EMISSIONS
sector
For information on the
substantive data used to
For 2022, total non-renewable energy consumption
calculate the indicator, please
amounted to 1,053,083 TJ (2021 figure of 1,044,714 TJ)
refer to the Sustainability
5. Share of non-renewable while generation from non-renewable sources amounted
Statement, “Zero emissions
energy consumption and to 115,318 GWh (2021 figure of 113,789 GWh).
ambition” section for details on
production In any case, note that the final indicator requested
Fuel consumption by primary
cannot be directly communicated by Enel, as it is
source (TJ) and "We empower
calculated by the investor.
sustainable progress" for data
relating to energy generation.
For information on the
substantive data used to
For 2022, total non-renewable energy consumption
calculate the indicator, please
6. Energy consumption amounted to 1,108,069 TJ (2021 figure of 1,099,302 TJ).
refer to the Sustainability
intensity per high impact In any case, note that the final indicator requested
Statement, “Zero emissions
climate sector cannot be directly communicated by Enel, as it is
ambition” section for details on
calculated by the investor.
Fuel consumption by primary
source (TJ)
In 2022, 4 new power generation plants were built in areas
of high biodiversity value (biodiversity-sensitive areas),
2 fewer than in 2021, including 3 in critical habitats and For further information, please
7. Activities negatively
1 area containing species at risk of extinction, for which refer to the “Conservation
BIODIVERSITY affecting biodiversity-
action plans were developed to restore habitats and of natural capital”, “The
sensitive areas
protect species. Of these, note the project to improve biodiversity action plan” section
habitats for reptiles, amphibians and other wildlife groups
at a photovoltaic plant in Torrecilla, Spain.
WATER 8. Emissions to water Indicator not applicable to Enel.
For further information, please
For 2022, the total amount of hazardous waste was
refer to the “Conservation of
55,940 t (2021 figure of 64,365 t).
natural capital” chapter and to
WASTE 9. Hazardous waste ratio In any case, note that the final indicator requested
the Sustainability Statement,
cannot be directly communicated by Enel, as it is
“Zero emissions ambition”
calculated by the investor.
section
In 2022, 20 cases of violations were recorded as
attributable to the principles enshrined in the Group’s
Policy on Human Rights, drawn up in compliance with
the main United Nations international standards of
10. Violations of UN Global
reference and with the OECD guidelines for multinational For further information,
Compact principles
companies. Specifically: please refer to the “Sound
and Organisation for
• 9 violations relating to “Conflict of interest/corruption” governance” chapter – “Values
Economic Cooperation
for the pursuit of personal interests or interests that and pillars of corporate ethics”
and Development
harm the company; and “Stakeholder reports”
(OECD) Guidelines for
• 11 violations connected to inappropriate behavior by sections
Multinational Enterprises
individual employees that is detrimental to respect
for diversity and non-discrimination and the failure
to comply with the internal procedures on health and
safety issues.
The implementation and monitoring of the commitments
expressed in the human rights policy adopted by the Enel
Group are governed by a process, which, as required by
the UN Guidelines and the OECD Due Diligence Guidance
for Responsible Business Conduct, aims to evaluate
our procedures and operational processes and define,
if necessary, an improvement plan to strengthen the
systems that protect the principles set out in the Policy
on Human Rights. This process is codified in a globally
applicable internal procedure and involves “identifying,
preventing, mitigating and reporting” adverse effects
11. Lack of processes potentially caused by the business. Specifically, it is
For further information, please
and compliance divided into the following phases:
refer to the “Managing human
mechanisms to monitor 1. assessment of the risk perceived by key stakeholders,
rights” chapter, especially the
compliance with UN Global at country level with reference to labor rights, local
SOCIAL AND “Access to remedies” section
Compact principles and communities and the environment;
EMPLOYEE MATTERS and the “Human Rights Content
OECD Guidelines for 2. gap analysis aimed at analyzing organizational
Index”.
Multinational Enterprises and control systems to protect risks and identify any
shortcomings;
3. development of actions for the improvement plan
aimed at addressing the gaps identified in the previous
phase;
4. Monitoring progress in the adoption of remedies.
The improvement actions highlighted by the process are
included in the Group's Sustainability Plan and disclosure
of the results of the analysis of perceived risk and gaps
is provided annually in the Group's Sustainability Report,
together with the progress made in the improvement
plans.
For further information, please
refer to the “Empowering
For 2022, the Women/Men Basic Salary Ratio is
12. Unadjusted gender Enel people” chapter and to
104.7% (2021 figure of 104.8%) and the Women/Men
pay gap the Sustainability Statement,
Remuneration Ratio is 105.4% (2021 figure of 105.1%)
“Empowering Enel people”
section
For further details, please refer
13. Board gender diversity,
44,4% 44,4% to the “Sound governance”
%
chapter.
14. Exposure to
controversial weapons
(antipersonnel mines,
Indicator not applicable to Enel.
cluster munitions,
chemical weapons and
biological weapons)
ISSUE ADDITIONAL INDICATORS 2022 VALUE 2021 VALUE CHAPTER REFERENCE
1. Emissions of inorganic
Indicator not applicable to Enel.
pollutants
For 2022, “SO emissions” amounted to 16,602 t (2021 figure of
2 Please refer to the Sustainability
15,615 t), “NO emissions” amounted to 74,225 t (2021 figure of
x Statement, “Zero emissions
78,846 t), “Dust emissions” (PM10) were 1,227 t (2021: 1,099 t) and
2. Emissions of air pollutants ambition” section for details on
“Hg emissions” were 0.08 t (2021: 0.05 t).
“Emissions of ozone-depleting
In any case, note that the final indicator requested cannot be
substances”.
directly communicated by Enel, as it is calculated by the investor.
EMISSIONS Si faccia riferimento al
For 2022, “emissions of ozone-depleting substances” were 43 Sustainability Statement: sec.
3. Emissions of ozone depletion kgCFC-11 (2021 figure of 180 kgCFC-11 ). “Zero emissions target” per
eq eq
substances In any case, note that the final indicator requested cannot be dettagli su “Emissioni di sostanze
directly communicated by Enel, as it is calculated by the investor. nocive per l’ozono (Ozone
Depleting Substances)”
4. Investments in companies
without carbon emission Indicator not applicable to Enel.
reduction initiatives
Please refer to the Sustainability
5. Breakdown of energy Statement, “Zero emissions
consumption by type of non- ambition” section, and for
- -
renewable sources of energy further qualitative information,
(TJ) to the “Conservation of natural
capital” chapter
Please refer to the Sustainability
Statement, “Zero emissions
from non-renewable sources ambition” section, and for
1.053.083 1.044.714
(TJ) further qualitative information,
to the “Conservation of natural
capital” chapter
Please refer to the Sustainability
Statement, “Zero emissions
ambition” section, and for
Coal (TJ) 206.450 141.528
further qualitative information,
to the “Conservation of natural
capital” chapter
Please refer to the Sustainability
Statement, “Zero emissions
ENERGY ambition” section, and for
Fuel oil (TJ) 35.848 34.787
PERFORMANCE further qualitative information,
to the “Conservation of natural
capital” chapter
Please refer to the Sustainability
Statement, “Zero emissions
ambition” section, and for
Natural gas (TJ) 469.425 549.312
further qualitative information,
to the “Conservation of natural
capital” chapter
Please refer to the Sustainability
Statement, “Zero emissions
ambition” section, and for
Diesel (TJ) 58.486 48.482
further qualitative information,
to the “Conservation of natural
capital” chapter
Please refer to the Sustainability
Statement, “Zero emissions
ambition” section, and for
Uranium (TJ) 282.872 270.605
further qualitative information,
to the “Conservation of natural
capital” chapter
For further information, please
For 2022, total “water withdrawals” amounted to 76.0 megaliters
refer to the Sustainability
(2021 figure of 73.1 megaliters), while the total “percentage of
Statement, “Zero emissions
6. Water usage and recycling recycled and reused water” was 0.15% (2021: 0.12%).
ambition” section, and to the
In any case, note that the final indicator requested cannot be
“Conservation of natural capital”
directly communicated by Enel, as it is calculated by the investor.
chapter
Enel is constantly committed to progressively reducing the
specific need for water for its plants and assets, through the
efficient use of water in existing thermal plants, the evolution Please refer to the “Conservation
7. Investments in companies
of the energy mix towards renewables, and the progressive of natural capital” chapter,
without water management
reduction of generation from fossil fuels. Starting this year, Enel “Responsible use of water”
policies
has renewed and relaunched its commitment to conserving water section
resources by adopting a new target aimed at reducing specific
withdrawal of fresh water.
Enel also pays particular attention to the vulnerability of the
resource, by mapping and constantly monitoring all generation
sites located in areas classified as water-stressed areas. Among
the sites mapped, those defined as “critical” are those positioned
in water-stressed areas which procure significant volumes of Please refer to the “Conservation
8. Exposure to areas of high fresh water. For these sites, which are specifically thermoelectric of natural capital” chapter,
water stress and nuclear plants that use water resources for process and “Responsible use of water”
closed-cycle cooling needs, water management methods and section
their process performance are constantly monitored, in order to
minimize consumption and favor withdrawals from sources of
lower quality or which are non-scarce (wastewater, industrial or
sea water).
WATER, WASTE 9. Investments in companies
Indicator not applicable to Enel.
AND MATERIAL producing chemicals
EMISSIONS
Enel is promoting a circular approach to land management, in
10. Land degradation, particular through the reuse and redevelopment of brownfield Please refer to the “Conservation
desertification, soil sealing sites, as well as the repowering and lifetime extension of wind of natural capital” chapter
farms, in order to limit the use of soil.
11. Investments in companies
without sustainable land/ Indicator not applicable to Enel.
agriculture practices
12. Investments in companies
without sustainable oceans/ Indicator not applicable to Enel.
seas practices
For further details, please refer
For 2022, the “% of total waste sent for recovery” was 84.39%
to the “Conservation of natural
(2021 figure of 85.30%).
13. Non-recycled waste ratio capital” chapter and to the
In any case, note that the final indicator requested cannot be
Sustainability Statement, “Zero
directly communicated by Enel, as it is calculated by the investor.
emissions ambition” section
Protection of biodiversity is one of the strategic objectives of the
“Enel Environmental Policy” and is regulated by a specific policy
adopted by Enel in 2015, the “Enel Biodiversity Policy”, renewed
14. Natural species and Please refer to the “Conservation
in 2023 following COP15. The policy defines the guidelines for all
protected areas of natural capital” chapter
the Group’s biodiversity protection initiatives and the principles
according to which they operate, aligned with the Kunming-
Montreal GBF.
Enel is committed to conserving forests and, if deforestation
Please refer to the “Conservation
15. Deforestation cannot be avoided, will reforest areas of equivalent value in line
of natural capital” chapter
with the principle of “No Net Deforestation”.
16. Share of securities not
GREEN certified as green under a
Indicator not applicable to Enel.
SECURITIES future EU legal act setting up
an EU Green Bond Standard
Our Group's commitment in terms of health, safety and work is
set out in two documents (both signed by the CEO): “Declaration
of Commitment to Health and Safety” and “Stop Work Policy”.
The former is based on several principles including compliance
with the law, adoption of the best standards; implementation
and continuous improvement of the Workers’ Health and Safety
1. Investments in companies Management System in compliance with the international For further details, please refer
without workplace accident standard ISO 45001; promotion of information initiatives to the “Occupational health and
prevention policies to spread and consolidate the culture of health, safety and safety” chapter
organizational well-being. The latter, the “Stop Work Policy”,
provides that both employees and contractors are required to
intervene promptly and stop any activity that may put their own or
others’ health and safety at risk.
In any case, note that the final indicator requested cannot be
directly communicated by Enel, as it is calculated by the investor.
For 2022, Total Recordable Injuries amounted to 809 (2021 figure
For further details, please refer
of 1,055). For full disclosure of the types of injuries reported by
to the “Occupational health
Enel (for Enel people and subcontractors), please see the “Chapter
and safety” chapter and to
2. Rate of accidents reference” column.
the Sustainability Statement,
In any case, note that the final indicator requested cannot be
“Occupational health and safety”
directly communicated by Enel, as it is calculated by the investor
section.
based on the information provided in the balance sheet.
For 2022, the total days lost due to workplace injuries was 7,492
(of which 1,968 to Enel people and 5,524 to subcontractors).
3. Number of days lost to For further details, please refer
The figure does not take into account days lost to occupational
injuries, accidents, fatalities to the “Occupational health and
diseases.
or illness safety” chapter.
In any case, note that the final indicator requested cannot be
directly communicated by Enel, as it is calculated by the investor.
Our purchasing processes are based on pre-contractual and
contractual conduct geared towards mutual loyalty, transparency
and collaboration. The basis of our procurement processes is
For further information, please
loyalty, transparency and collaboration, and we ask our suppliers
refer to the “Sustainable supply
4. Lack of a supplier code of not only to guarantee the quality standards required, but also to
chain” chapter and to “Sound
conduct commit to adopting best practices in terms of human rights and
governance – Values and pillars
SOCIAL AND of the impact of their activity on the environment. Indeed, there of corporate ethics”
EMPLOYEE are clear and specific references in terms of codes of conduct,
MATTERS including our Policy on Human Rights, Code of Ethics, Zero
Tolerance of Corruption Plan, and global compliance programs.
In line with the third pillar of the United Nations Guiding Principles,
Enel has established multiple access channels for reporting by
people inside or outside the company, including:
• a whistleblowing channel, available to internal and external
stakeholders, accessible via:
5. Lack of grievance/ For further information, please
- w eb or toll-free number as indicated on the Enel Code of
complaints handling refer to the “Sound governance”
Ethics webpage;
mechanism related to chapter – “Values and pillars of
- b y letter to the address: Enel S.p.A. – Audit Function – Code of
employee matters corporate ethics” section
Ethics. Via Dalmazia, 15 – 00198 Rome, ITALY;
• various processes and tools available to communities in the
area of influence of our activities;
• customer complaints or information channels (via email,
website, toll-free number).
For further information, please
refer to the “Sound governance”
The whistleblowing management process is regulated by
chapter, in particular to
6. Insufficient whistleblower the “Management of anonymous and non-anonymous
the “Code of Ethics” and
protection whistleblowing” Policy, which guarantees anonymity and
“Stakeholder reports” sections,
protection against any form of retaliation.
and to the “Human Rights
Content Index”
For further information, please
refer to the “Sound governance”
chapter, in particular to
7. Incidents of discrimination In 2022, 4 violations were recorded relating to cases of
the “Code of Ethics” and
(no.) discrimination at the workplace, in particular cases of harassment.
“Stakeholder reports” sections,
and to the “Human Rights
Content Index”
For further information, please
refer to the WEF Content Index
For 2022, the CEO pay ratio at Enel was 60% (2021 figure: 90%).
– “Dignity and equality section”,
8. Excessive CEO pay ratio (%) In any case, note that the final indicator requested cannot be
and to the “Sound governance”
directly communicated by Enel, as it is calculated by the investor.
chapter, “Remuneration policy”
section.
Since 2013, Enel has adopted a Policy on Human Rights, approved
by the Board of Directors and updated in 2021 to take into
For further information, please
account changes in international frameworks and our operational,
refer to the “Managing human
organizational and management processes. The policy leverages
rights” chapter, in particular to
the commitments set out in the various codes of conduct such
9. Lack of a human rights policy the “Our public commitment: the
as the Code of Ethics (adopted in 2002), the Zero Tolerance Plan
Policy on Human Rights” section
for Corruption and global compliance models, by strengthening
and the “Human Rights Content
and expanding on their content. The policy sets out 12 principles,
Index”.
divided into two broad themes: practices in the workplace and
relations with communities and society.
As required by the UN Guidelines and by the OECD Due Diligence
Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct, we have set up a For further information, please
process – codified in an internal procedure applicable at global refer to the “Managing human
level – that, with reference to the entire value chain in the various rights” chapter, in particular to
10. Lack of due diligence
countries where we operate, aims to evaluate our procedures and the “Our Due Diligence process”
operational processes and define, if necessary, an improvement section and the “Human Rights
plan to strengthen the systems that protect the principles set out Content Index”.
in the Policy on Human Rights.
For further information, please
Since 2013, our commitment against all forms of human
11. Lack of processes and refer to the “Managing human
trafficking has been formally set out in principle 2.1.1, “Rejection
measures for preventing rights” chapter, and to the “Policy
of forced or compulsory labor and child labor” of our Policy on
trafficking in human beings on Human Rights”, available on
Human Rights.
the corporate website.
HUMAN RIGHTS Since 2013, our commitment against all forms of slavery and
child labor has been formally set out in principle 2.1.1, “Rejection
of forced or compulsory labor and child labor” of our Policy on
Human Rights. We believe that children and underage workers are
For further information, please
a risk category, which is why we pay close attention to respecting
12. Operations and suppliers at refer to the “Managing human
their rights throughout the value chain of our activities. We reject
significant risk of incidents of rights” chapter, and to the “Policy
the use of child labor, as defined by the legislation in force in
child labor on Human Rights”, available on
the country where the activities are carried out. In any case, our
the corporate website.
workers are never younger than the minimum age laid down in
ILO Convention No. 138. Human resources management systems
and procedures therefore guarantee the absence of minors in the
workforce.
Since 2013, our commitment against the use of any kind of
forced or compulsory labor has been formally set out in principle
For further information, please
2.1.1, “Rejection of forced or compulsory labor and child labor”
13. Operations and suppliers at refer to the “Managing human
of our Policy on Human Rights. The contracts considered overall
significant risk of incidents of rights” chapter, and to the “Policy
regulate labor conditions, clearly defining workers’ rights (working
forced or compulsory labor on Human Rights”, available on
hours, remuneration, overtime, indemnity, benefits). Each worker
the corporate website.
is guaranteed a translated employment contract in his/her native
language.
For further information, please
14. Number of identified cases refer to the “Sound governance”
In 2022, no serious human rights violations were recorded
of severe human rights issues chapter – “Values and pillars
through the Group’s whistleblowing channel.
and incidents of corporate ethics” and
“Stakeholder reports” sections
In compliance with the 10th Global Compact principle, according
to which “companies are committed to combating corruption
in all its forms, including extortion and bribery”, Enel intends to
pursue its commitment to fighting corruption in all its forms – For further information, please
whether direct or indirect – by applying the principles expressed refer to the “Sound governance”
15. Lack of anti-corruption and in the pillars of its Anti-Bribery Management System. chapter – “Values and pillars of
anti-bribery policies Enel’s Anti-Bribery Management System (ABMS) is based on corporate ethics” and “Active
the Group’s commitment to fighting corruption by applying and passive fight against
the criteria of transparency and conduct as set out in the Zero corruption”
Tolerance of Corruption Plan (ZTC Plan) and confirmed in the Anti-
ANTI-
Bribery Policy adopted in compliance with international standard
CORRUPTION
ISO 37001:2016 (on anti-bribery management systems).
AND ANTI-
BRIBERY Please refer to the “Sound
16. Cases of insufficient action Ascertained violations relating to reports received through the
governance” chapter – “Values
taken to address breaches of Ethics Channel are subject to disciplinary measures and/or
and pillars of corporate ethics”
standards of anti-corruption sanctions against the people responsible. In addition to reports
and “Stakeholder reports”
and anti-bribery relating to the Code of Ethics, no other events were reported.
sections
Please refer to the “Sound
17. Number of convictions and On the basis of the reports to the Ethical Channel received in
governance” chapter – “Values
amount of fines for violation 2022, no violations led to convictions or financial penalties for
and pillars of corporate ethics”
of anti-corruption and anti- the people involved. In addition to reports relating to the Code of
and “Stakeholder reports”
bribery laws Ethics, no other events were reported.
sections
Human Rights Content Index
Our pledge to respect human rights is the guiding principle that permeates all our activities and it is fully integrated
into our corporate purpose and values, since we belong to the territory, and we are an essential element in the lives of
people, businesses, and society at large. With our commitment we are striving for sustainable progress, to make our
company and the communities in which we operate more prosperous, more inclusive and more resilient, without leaving
anyone behind.
INTERNATIONAL
REFERENCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022:
ISSUE PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION SDG STANDARDS CHAPTERS/PRAGRAPHS
Employment Rejection Reject of the use of any form • United Nations Our strategy for sustainable progress
practices of forced or of forced or compulsory labor, Guiding Principles on
compulsory of any form of slavery and Business and human Materiality analysis process and
labor and child human trafficking and of child rights results for 2022
labor labor • OECD guidelines Our commitment to continuous
for multinational improvement
enterprises
• ILO Convention 29 Zero emissions ambition
• United Nations Global
Our commitment to a just transition:
Compact principles
leaving no one behind
Empowering Enel people
Sustainable supply chain
Circular economy
Innovation
Digitalization
Sound governance
Managing human rights
Respect Diversity, inclusion, equal • United Nations Materiality analysis process and
for diversity treatment and opportunity, Guiding Principles results for 2022
and non- working conditions respectful on Business and
discrimination of personal dignity, creation of human rights Our strategy for sustainable progress
a working environment where • OECD guidelines Our commitment to continuous
people are treated fairly, valued for multinational improvement
for their uniqueness and not enterprises
discriminated or subject to • ILO Conventions Zero emissions ambition
harassment, commitment to 100, 111, 190 Clean electrification
a just energy transition for • United Nations
everyone and attention to Global Compact Empowering Enel people
clients requests principles Sustainable supply chain
Engaging communities
Freedom of Freedom to form or take part • United Nations Materiality analysis process and
association in organizations aimed at Guiding Principles results for 2022
and collective defending and promoting the on Business and
bargaining rights of people, respect of human rights Our strategy for sustainable progress
their right to be represented • OECD guidelines Our commitment to continuous
by unions or other forms of for multinational improvement
representation, collective enterprises
bargaining as the favored • ILO Conventions 87, Zero emissions ambition
instrument for setting 98, 154 Our commitment to a just transition:
contractual conditions and • United Nations leaving no one behind
regulating relations between Global Compact
management and unions principles Empowering Enel people
Sustainable supply chain
Engaging communities
INTERNATIONAL
REFERENCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022:
ISSUE PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION SDG STANDARDS CHAPTERS/PRAGRAPHS
Employment Health, safety, Protection of health, safety • United Nations Materiality analysis process and
practices and well-being and psychological, relational, Guiding Principles results for 2022
and physical well-being of on Business and
individuals; dissemination of human rights Our strategy for sustainable progress
such culture to ensure that • OECD guidelines Our commitment to a just transition:
workplaces are hazard-free for multinational leaving no one behind
and to promote behaviors enterprises
oriented towards work-life • ILO Conventions Our commitment to continuous
integration 155, 156, 187 improvement
• United Nations
Empowering Enel people
Global Compact
principles Sustainable supply chain
Engaging communities
Occupational health and safety
Just and Protection of the right to • United Nations Materiality analysis process and
favourable conditions that respect the Guiding Principles results for 2022
working health, safety, well-being on Business and
conditions and dignity of individuals, human rights Our strategy for sustainable progress
maximum working hours, • OECD guidelines Our commitment to continuous
daily and weekly rest periods for multinational improvement
and annual period of paid enterprises
leave, and fair remuneration • ILO Conventions Zero emissions ambition
as well as equal pay for equal 100, 132, 155, Our commitment to a just transition:
work for men and women, 156,187 leaving no one behind
minimum compensation, and • United Nations
professional orientation and Global Compact Empowering Enel people
training principles Sustainable supply chain
Engaging communities
Communities Environment Protection of the environment • United Nations Materiality analysis process and
and society and biodiversity, climate Guiding Principles results for 2022
action, and contribution on Business and
to a sustainable economic human rights Our strategy for sustainable progress
development • OECD guidelines Our commitment to continuous
for multinational improvement
enterprises
• United Nations Zero emissions ambition
Global Compact
Our commitment to a just transition:
principles
leaving no one behind
Conservation of natural capital
Empowering Enel people
Sustainable supply chain
Engaging communities
Circular economy
Innovation
INTERNATIONAL
REFERENCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022:
ISSUE PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION SDG STANDARDS CHAPTERS/PRAGRAPHS
Communities Respecting Responsible community • United Nations Materiality analysis process and
and society the rights of relations based on the Guiding Principles results for 2022
communities assumption that individual on Business and
conditions, economic human rights Our strategy for sustainable progress
and social development, • OECD guidelines Our commitment to continuous
and general well-being for multinational improvement
of collectivity are strictly enterprises
connected. This includes • ILO Convention 169 Zero emissions ambition
conducting capital expenditure • United Nations Our commitment to a just transition:
in a sustainable manner, Global Compact leaving no one behind
promoting cultural, social principles
and economic initiatives for Clean electrification
affected local and national
Empowering Enel people
communities to advance social
inclusion through education, Sustainable supply chain
training and access to energy.
Engaging communities
Commitment to ensure that
products and services are Conservation of natural capital
designed to be accessible
Circular economy
for all.
Respecting the Commitment to respecting
rights of local the rights of local communities
communities and to contribute to their
economic and social growth
also through collaborations
with suppliers, contractors
and partners that contribute
to the social and economic
development of the
communities where we
operate.
This goes also through:
promoting free, prior, and
informed consultation
activities and implementing
social inclusion actions
(local manpower, health and
safety training, development
of local projects – also
in partnership with local
organizations); taking into due
account the environmental
and social impact in the
designing and construction
of our infrastructure projects;
requiring that private
security forces protecting
Group's personnel and
assets in operating areas
act consistently with the
applicable national law and
regulation and international
standards.
Respecting Specific commitment to pay
the rights of particular attention to the
indigenous and most vulnerable communities,
tribal people such as indigenous and tribal
peoples, in case of developing
new projects and to respect
the United Nations Declaration
of the rights of Indigenous
Peoples.
INTERNATIONAL
REFERENCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022:
ISSUE PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION SDG STANDARDS CHAPTERS/PRAGRAPHS
Communities Integrity: zero Reject of corruption in all its • United Nations Materiality analysis process and
and society tolerance of forms, both direct and indirect, Guiding Principles results for 2022
corruption since it is one of the factors on Business and
undermining institutions and human rights Our strategy for sustainable progress
democracy, ethical values • OECD guidelines Our commitment to continuous
and justice, as well as the for multinational improvement
well-being and development enterprises
of society. • United Nations Sound governance
Global Compact
principles
Privacy Respect of the confidentiality • United Nations Materiality analysis process and
and right to privacy of our Guiding Principles results for 2022
stakeholders and to use on Business and
correctly information and human rights Our strategy for sustainable progress
data relating to the people • OECD guidelines Our commitment to continuous
working in our organization, for multinational improvement
to our customers and to any enterprises
other stakeholder; processing • ILO Clean electrification
of data in compliance with Recommendation Empowering Enel people
the fundamental rights and on ''Protection of
the rights and principles workers' personal Sustainable supply chain
recognized in law, notably data''
Sound governance
respect for private and family • United Nations
life, home location details and Global Compact
communications, personal principles
data protection, freedom
of thought, conscience and
religion, freedom of expression
and information
Communication Commitment to ensure that • United Nations Materiality analysis process and
institutional and commercial Guiding Principles results for 2022
communications are non- on Business and
discriminatory and are human rights Our strategy for sustainable progress
respectful of different cultures, • OECD guidelines Our commitment to continuous
while also not adversely for multinational improvement
affecting the most vulnerable enterprises
audiences, such as children • United Nations Clean electrification
and the elderly. Global Compact Sustainable supply chain
principles
Engaging communities
INTERNATIONAL
REFERENCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022:
ISSUE PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION SDG STANDARDS CHAPTERS/PRAGRAPHS
Human rights Public Adoption of a human rights • United Nations Our governance of sustainability
governance commitment policy Guiding Principles
on Business and Managing human rights
human rights
• OECD guidelines
for multinational
enterprises
• United Nations
Global Compact
principles
Due diligence Identification, prevention and • United Nations Our governance of sustainability
of the mitigation of the potential Guiding Principles
management negative effects caused by on Business and Managing human rights
system business operations human rights
• OECD guidelines
Reporting to Control and Risk for multinational
Committee and to Corporate enterprises
Governance and Sustainability • OECD Due diligence
Committee about the Guidance for
implementation of the due Responsible
diligence process Business Conduct
Access to Access to specific grievance • United Nations Our governance of sustainability
remedy channels also at local level Guiding Principles
Sound governance
on Business and
human rights Managing human rights
• OECD guidelines
for multinational
enterprises
• OECD Due diligence
Guidance for
Responsible
Business Conduct
• United Nations
Global Compact
principles
Transparency Annual reporting, within • United Nations Our governance of sustainability
the Sustainability Report, Guiding Principles
of the performance on the on Business and Sound governance
commitments undertaken human rights Managing human rights
through the human rights • OECD guidelines
policy for multinational
enterprises
• OECD Due diligence
Guidance for
Responsible
Business Conduct
Our position on and commitment
to the European Taxonomy
Enel welcomes the development of the EU Taxonomy the EU Taxonomy Regulation. These included energy se-
Regulation, as it provides a standardized, science-based curity, grid reliability and the energy transition, all of which
classification system to identify environmentally sustaina- are critical to Europe’s well-being but which are appropri-
ble economic activities. The EU Taxonomy Regulation acts ately addressed by other policies, funds and regulations at
as an important enabler to promote sustainable invest- EU and Member State level.
ments and accelerate the decarbonization of the Europe- The EU Taxonomy Regulation is still in a developmental
an economy, while at the same time creating reliability and stage, and a number of important Delegated Acts are still
transparency for investors and supporting companies in being finalized at the time of publication of this Sustaina-
planning the Net-Zero transition. bility Report. These include acts that will detail the crite-
We are committed to reporting on the implementation of ria for the remaining four objectives (sustainable use and
Article 8 of the European Taxonomy Regulation 852/2020 protection of water and marine resources, transition to
and of the Delegated Act which further specifies the con- a circular economy, pollution prevention and control and
tent, methodology and presentation of information to be protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosys-
dis-closed by both financial and non-financial companies. tems), as well as those that will identify economic activities
Concerning the Climate Delegated Act, which lays out that do not have a significant harmful impact on environ-
the criteria for verifying the contribution to climate miti- mental sustainability and those that do. Completion of the
gation and adaptation, we welcome the different thresh- entire regulatory process should ensure that all globally
olds defined in the EU Taxonomy Regulation on the basis recognized economic activities are considered, thereby
of climate and environmental sciences, such as the spe- reducing current uncertainties regarding implementation
cific emission limit of 100 gCO /kWh (taking the whole of the process itself.
2eq
life cycle into consideration) to measure the substantial Going beyond the disclosure requirements of the Taxon-
contribution to achieving the climate change mitigation omy, Enel has included the Capex alignment percentage
objectives established for most power generation tech- as one of the key performance indicators of the Sustain-
nologies, in that it stems from a solid process based on a ability-Linked Financing Framework used to define the
robust scientific foundation. Company’s sustainable financial instruments. With this im-
However, there are some activities that, although not portant move forward, Enel reinforces the role of the Tax-
covered under the EU Taxonomy Regulation, are critical onomy as a driver to promote sustainable investment de-
to promoting the well-being of citizens, especially in the cisions and show how sustainability can be fully integrated
short and medium term, while contributing to the sustain- into the financial landscape.
able development the long term. Enel holds its annual Capital Markets Day to align its capi-
As regards the energy industry, there are some impor- tal allocation with the EU Taxonomy set out in its Business
tant sustainability-related issues that the European Com- Plan. In particular, in 2022 Enel announced a target in ex-
mission did not consider when developing the technical cess of 80% Capex alignment for the period 2023-2025
screening criteria, as they were outside the main scope of as part of its contribution to climate mitigation.
Our implementation process
1 2 3 4 5
Identification of Analysis Assessment of the Verification of Calculation
eligible economic of substantial principle of Do No minimum social of financial
activities contribution Significant Harm safeguards metrics
(DNSH) to other
environmental
objectives
•
By means of a process overseen by the CEO and Top Man- gas and nuclear: during July 2022, the EU Parlia-
agement, involving the relevant Functions at corporate ment and Council have approved the EU Commis-
and country level, as well as all Business Lines, we initiated sion’s proposal for including nuclear and gas in
a process, articulated in five steps, to analyze the applica- the EU Taxonomy, allowing investments in these
bility of the EU Taxonomy Regulation throughout the entire energy sources to qualify as sustainable, under a
value chain and in all countries where we operate. set of strict criteria defined by the Commission
1. Identification of eligible economic activities: we have previously. Based on the Complementary Delegat-
identified all activities within the Group’s portfolio that ed Act (CDA), our approach is the following:
–
have been included both in the Climate Delegated Act gas: the potential compliance with the thresh-
and the Complementary Delegated Act. The process old of 100 gCO/kWh that applies also for this
2
was conducted by taking into consideration the climate technology has been analyzed in all of our gas
change mitigation objective only, which is our most power plants, while we have also checked the
material objective among the six objectives identified potential compliance with the alternative crite-
in the EU Taxonomy Regulation, also due to the lack of ria set out in the delegated act for electricity
reliable financial data in our accounting and reporting production from gas;
–
systems to carry out a comprehensive analysis of Enel’s nuclear: we have analyzed the eligibility of the
contribution to climate adaptation objective. However, three different activities related to electricity
climate adaptation has been analyzed from the do no production from nuclear identified in the del-
significant harm perspective, while further information egated act according to our nuclear business
on Enel’s climate adaptation measures can be found in in Spain;
•
the “Zero emission ambition” chapter. wind, solar and battery storage: these are exempt
2. Analysis of substantial contribution: eligible activities from the carbon intensity threshold verification
identified in the previous stage were analyzed in detail due to their substantial contribution to climate
for their compliance with the specific technical screen- change mitigation;
•
ing criteria established with regard to their substantial hydroelectric power: the carbon intensity thresh-
contribution to climate change mitigation. The anal- old was verified only in power plants with a pow-
ysis was carried out following the criteria both in the er density below 5 W/m2. All power plants with a
Climate Delegated Act and Complementary Delegated power density above 5 W/m2, as well as flowing
Act, namely: water plants and pumped storage plants, are ex-
a. Technological analysis for power generation activi- empt from the threshold verification;
•
ties. The threshold of 100 gCO /kWh measured on geothermal: the threshold was verified by carrying
2eq
a life cycle basis was met according to the following out life cycle assessments certified by independ-
technological approach: ent third parties.
•
coal and liquid fossil fuels: technology excluded b. Analysis at country, region and system level for the
from the EU Taxonomy Regulation; transmission and distribution of electricity. Compli-
ance with the following technical screening criteria following environmental objectives:
•
was analyzed in all eight countries where Enel distrib- adaptation to climate change: analysis of global pro-
utes electricity: cedures (including emerging and restoration pro-
•
the Distribution System Operator (DSO) is part of cedures), assessment of physical climate risks and
the European interconnected system; or solutions and adaptation plans in place covering all
•
non-European DSOs belong to countries with applicable activities related to power generation,
more than 67% of newly enabled generation ca- transmission and networks and Enel X Business Line;
•
pacity in the system is below the generation sustainable use and protection of waters and marine
threshold value of 100 gCO /kWh measured on resources: analysis of water-related procedures, au-
2eq
a life cycle basis in accordance with electricity thorizations, environmental impact assessments, na-
generation criteria, over period 2016-2020 (data tional regulations and water management plans. The
made available by national authorities over a roll- analysis was limited to power generation activities, as
ing five-year period prior to the preparation of the it is not applicable to other Business Lines;
•
2021 Sustainability Report); or transition to a circular economy: analysis of waste
•
the average emission factor of the non-Europe- management plans, procurement requirements and
an DSO network is below the threshold value of circular economy projects and plans covering all ac-
100 gCO /kWh measured on a life cycle basis in tivities applicable to the generation, transmission
2eq
accordance with electricity generation criteria, in and distribution of electricity and to the products of
the period 2017-2021. the Enel X Business Line;
•
Infrastructure dedicated to creating a direct con- pollution prevention and control: analysis of global
nection or expanding an existing direct connection procedures and national regulations concerning all
between a substation or network and a power pro- applicable activities from power generation, transmis-
duction plant that is more greenhouse gas intensive sion and networks. In addition, specific pollutants were
than 100 gCO /kWh measured on a life cycle basis further analyzed, including electromagnetic radiation
2eq
has been identified and excluded from the eligible and PCBs for transmission and networks, and emis-
aligned DSOs activities. sions from power generation activities for air quality;
•
c. Product cluster level analysis for Enel X Global Retail protection and restoration of biodiversity and
(Business Line). A comprehensive analysis of the port- eco-systems: analysis of global procedures and na-
folio was performed, classifying eligible activities into tional regulations covering all applicable activities
the sectors identified in the Climate Delegated Act, from power generation, transmission and distribution.
such as construction and real estate, transportation, 4. Assessment of the minimum social safeguards: it has
or professional, scientific and technical activities. been verified that the Group’s human rights due dili-
d. Sourcing analysis for power retail activities. Power gence process covers the entire perimeter of Enel.
retail activity is currently no explicitly considered in Our commitment to respect human rights is grounded
the Climate Delegated Act, hence it has not been in- in the United Nations framework “Protect, Respect and
cluded in the taxonomy alignment calculation. How- Remedy”, set out in the guiding principles on business
ever, considering the key role that this activity plays and human rights, and in the OECD Guidelines for Mul-
in the energy transition towards a zero emission tinational Enterprises.
economy, particularly when it is developed by inte- Since 2013, we have adopted a specific human rights
grated utilities such as Enel, we have carried out an policy reflecting our commitment, which was updated
additional analysis to determine its positive impact in 2021 to take into account the evolving international
on the overall results if this activity would be correct- frameworks of reference and our operating, organiza-
ly represented in the Climate Delegated Act. tional and managerial processes. The content of the
3. Assessment of the principle of Do No Significant Harm policy refers to internationally recognized human rights
(DNSH) to other objectives: an analysis of existing en- –understood, at a minimum, as those expressed in the
vironmental procedures was carried out to verify com- International Bill of Human Rights and the principles
pliance with the DNSH quality criteria for each type of concerning the fundamental rights set out in the Inter-
technology (for power generation), region (for transmis- national Labour Organization conventions underlying
sion and distribution) and product cluster level (for ac- the Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Mul-
tivities of the Enel X Global Retail Business Line), adapt- tinational Enterprises and Social Policy.
ed to the specific requirements set out for each of the
For our approach to human rights, phases in the due “Managing human rights”.
diligence process, and communication of findings and The following table illustrates our approach to the mini-
(possible) remediation plans, please see the chapter mum safeguards criteria.
Minimum safeguards criteria
•
The main reference international standards underpinning our commitment are the United Nations “Protect,
Respect and Remedy” framework outlined in its Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Our commitment is transparently reflected in a specific Policy on
Human rights Human Rights developed and adopted as early as 2013 and refreshed in 2021.
•
We have committed to monitor the implementation of the policy through a specific due diligence(1) process
defined based on the UN Guidelines and by the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business
Conduct. For more details refer to the section “Managing human rights”.
•
As reflected in our Policy on Human Rights, we reject corruption in all its forms, both direct and indirect, since
we believe it is one of the factors undermining institutions and democracy, ethical values and justice, and the
wellbeing and development of society.
Corruption •
To this end, we reiterate our commitment to fight corruption through a plan called “Zero Tolerance of
Corruption” which is one of the pillars on which our Anti-bribery Management System is grounded and in our
Group Code of Ethics.
•
We have set out a tax strategy at Group level to ensure a fair, responsible and transparent taxation, with the aim
of guaranteeing consistent and uniform tax management across all entities belonging to the Group. Our tax
management activity is based on the concurrent objectives of:
Taxation
1.the correct and timely calculation and payment of due taxes, and fulfilment of the related obligations;
2.the mitigation of tax risk, defined as the risk of violating tax laws, or of abusing the principles and purposes
of tax regulations. For additional details, please refer to the chapter “Tax transparency”.
•
We promote the principle of fair competition and refrain from collusive or predatory conduct and abuses of a
Fair competition
dominant position, as reflected in our Group Code of Ethics.
5. Calculation of financial metrics: the corresponding fi- ies have been performed for specific activities when fi-
nancial metrics were associated with each economic nancial information was not available in the accounting
activity according to the classification made in steps system (described in the section on the calculation of
1-4, collecting the relevant financial information from financial metrics).
the Group’s accounting system. In addition, some prox-
(1) In the context of the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (Principles 17-21), this term refers to a continuously evolving management system
implemented by a company, in accordance with the sector in which it works, its operating contexts, its organizational structure, to ensure it is not involved
in human rights violations. This implies “identifying, preventing, mitigating and reporting” potential negative impacts deriving from the Company’s business
activities.
Through this process, Enel classified all economic activities egories: taxonomy eligible and aligned, taxonomy eligible
along its value chain according to the following three cat- but not aligned, and taxonomy not eligible.
Eligible-aligned: this refers to an economic activity that simultaneously satisfies the following
Eligible-aligned three conditions:
•
it is explicitly included in the EU Taxonomy Regulation for its substantial contribution to climate
change mitigation; and
•
it meets the specific criteria developed by the EU Taxonomy Regulation for that specific environ-
mental objective; and
•
it meets all DNSH criteria and minimum social safeguards.
Eligible-not aligned: refers to an economic activity that:
•
Eligible-not is explicitly included in the EU Taxonomy Regulation for its substantial contribution to climate
aligned change mitigation or adaptation; but
•
does not meet the specific criteria developed by the EU Taxonomy Regulation for those specific
environmental objectives; or
•
does not meet all the DNSH criteria and/or the minimum social safeguards.
Not eligible: refers to an economic activity that has not been identified by the EU Taxonomy Regula-
Not eligible tion as a substantial contributor to climate change mitigation and for which no criteria have there-
fore been developed. The logic of the European Commission is that these activities might:
•
not have a significant impact on climate change mitigation or could be integrated into the EU
Taxonomy Regulation at a later stage;
•
cause a very significant impact on climate change mitigation, so they cannot be eligible in any
case.
Consequently, the existence of the third category “not Regulation, even though these not eligible activities might
eligible” makes it impossible to achieve a business model not cause any harm to the EU’s environmental objectives.
that is fully aligned with the criteria of the EU Taxonomy
European
taxonomy
ELIGIBLE
Aligned Not-aligned Not eligible
•
Solar and wind
• Hydro (0.4%) Trading
Hydro (99.6%)
•
Geothermal
• •
RES Storage New connections Retail sale of power
between a substation or gas to end users
or grid and a generation
Distribution in Europe,
Mapping in
plant with greenhouse
Brazil, Chile and Peru Financial services, general
accordance gas intensity over
without new connections services and other
with Climate between a substation threshold of unmeasured product
Delegated or grid and a generation 100 gCO 2eq/kWh clusters
•
Act and plant with greenhouse gas Distribution in Argentina
Complementary intensity over threshold of and Colombia • Coal
100 gCO /kWh •
Delegated Act 2eq Nuclear(1)
•
Gaseous fossil fuels (CCGT) Fuel-oil and OCGT(2)
Smart Lighting, e-Bus,
Energy Efficiency, Home,
Vivi Meglio Unifamiliare,
Condominium, Customer
Insight, Distributed Energy,
Battery Energy Storage
e-Mobility
(1) The operation of our nuclear generation portfolio is not included among the eligible activities considered by the Complementary Delegated Act in the
generation of electricity from nuclear power plants.
(2) Includes both fuel-oil and gas (OCGT) as it is not possible to divide the two types of fuel. Fuel-oil was considered to be the prevalent fossil fuel and is
therefore not eligible under the EU Taxonomy Regulation.
In 2022, we updated our eligibility analysis according to nal of the European Union in December 2021, while also
the process and the new definition for the three catego- the Complementary Delegated Act publishes in the Official
ries described above and pursuant to the final version of Journal of the European Union in July 2022. The following
the Climate Delegated Act published in the Official Jour- three tables summarize the results of this analysis.
Eligible-aligned activities
Business Description of the activity (according
Line Activity to the EU Taxonomy Regulation) Condition aligned with requirements
Electricity (4.3) - Construction or operation of electricity 100% of the installed capacity is eligible and
generation from generation facilities that produce electricity aligned because:
•
wind power from wind power. it makes a substantial contribution to climate
change mitigation as no specific technical
screening criteria are required;
•
it complies overall with DNSH criteria for the
following applicable objectives: adaptation,
circular economy and biodiversity;
•
it complies overall with minimum social
safeguards.
Electricity (4.1) - Construction or operation of electricity 100% of the installed capacity is eligible and
generation using generation facilities that produce electricity aligned because:
•
solar photovoltaic using solar photovoltaic (PV) technology. it makes a substantial contribution to climate
technology change mitigation as no specific technical
screening criteria are required;
•
it complies overall with DNSH criteria for the
following applicable objectives: adaptation,
circular economy and biodiversity;
•
it complies overall with minimum social
safeguards.
Electricity (4.5) - Construction or operation of electricity 99.3% of the installed capacity is eligible and
generation from generation facilities that produce electricity aligned because:
•
hydropower from hydropower. it makes a substantial contribution to climate
change mitigation, since it includes all flowing
water plants, all pumped storage plants, all
reservoir plants with a power density above 5
W/m2 and all reservoir plants below 5 W/m2 with
Power a life cycle greenhouse gas intensity below 100
generation gCO /kWh as certified by G-RES;
• 2eq
it complies overall with DNSH criteria for the
following applicable objectives: adaptation,
water and biodiversity;
•
it complies overall with minimum social
safeguards.
Electricity (4.6) - Construction or operation of electricity 100% of the installed capacity is eligible and
generation from generation facilities that produce electricity aligned because:
•
geothermal from geothermal energy. it makes a substantial contribution to climate
energy change mitigation, as all power plants have a
life cycle GHG emission intensity of less than
100 gCO /kWh, as verified by an independent
2eq
third party;
•
it complies overall with DNSH criteria for the
following applicable objectives: adaptation,
water, pollution and biodiversity;
•
it complies overall with minimum social
safeguards.
Storage of (4.10) - Construction and operation of facilities 100% of the installed capacity is eligible and
electricity that store electricity. aligned because:
•
(batteries) it makes a substantial contribution to climate
change mitigation as no specific technical
screening criteria are required;
•
it complies overall with DNSH criteria for the
following applicable objectives: adaptation,
circular economy, water and biodiversity;
•
it complies overall with minimum social
safeguards.
Business Description of the activity (according
Line Activity to the EU Taxonomy Regulation) Condition aligned with requirements
Transmission and (4.9) - Construction and operation of The DSOs in Italy, Romania, Spain, Brazil, Chile and
distribution of transmission systems that transport the Peru are aligned in that:
•
electricity electricity on the extra high-voltage and high- they make a substantial contribution to climate
voltage interconnected system. Construction change mitigation, in particular:
and operation of distribution systems that – the DSOs in Italy, Romania and Spain are part
transport electricity on high-voltage, medium- of the European interconnected system;
voltage and low-voltage distribution systems. – the DSOs in Brazil, Chile and Peru belong to
electricity systems where more than 67% of
newly installed capacity in the last five years
Enel Grids
has a life cycle GHG intensity of less than 100
gCO /kWh, according to the latest data
2eq
available from national authorities;
•
they comply overall with DNSH criteria for the
following applicable objectives: adaptation,
circular economy, pollution and biodiversity.
Some infrastructures have been excluded from
these DSOs (refer to eligible but not aligned
activities).
Smart Lighting Installation, maintenance and repair of energy The whole activity is aligned with the requirements
(City) efficiency equipment (7.3) - Installation and because:
•
replacement of energy efficient light sources it makes a substantial contribution to climate
(7.3 d). change mitigation as no specific technical
screening criteria are required;
•
it complies overall with DNSH criteria for the
adaptation and pollution goals;
•
it complies overall with minimum social
safeguards.
e-Bus Urban and suburban transport, road passenger The whole activity is aligned with the requirements
(City) transport (6.3) - The activity provides urban or because:
•
suburban passenger transport and its direct it makes a substantial contribution to climate
(tailpipe) CO emissions are zero (6.3 a). change mitigation as no specific technical
2
screening criteria are required;
•
it complies overall with DNSH criteria for the
applicable objectives: adaptation, circular
economy and pollution;
•
it complies overall with minimum social
safeguards.
Enel X
Energy efficiency Installation, maintenance and repair of energy The whole activity is aligned with the requirements
(City) efficiency equipment (7.3) - Addition of insulation because:
•
to existing envelope components, such as it makes a substantial contribution to climate
external walls (including green walls), roofs change mitigation as no specific technical
(including green roofs), lofts, basements and screening criteria are required;
•
ground floors (including measures to ensure it complies overall with DNSH criteria for the
air-tightness, measures to reduce the effects of adaptation goal;
•
thermal bridges and scaffolding) and products it complies overall with minimum social
for the application of the insulation to the safeguards.
building envelope (including mechanical fixings
and adhesive) (7.3 a) - Replacement of existing
windows with new energy efficient windows (7.3
b) - Replacement of existing external doors with
new energy efficient doors (7.3 c) - Installation
and replacement of energy efficient light sources
(7.3 d) - Installation, replacement, maintenance
and repair of heating, ventilation and air-
conditioning (HVAC) and water heating systems,
including equipment related to district heating
services, with highly efficient technologies (7.3 e).
Business Description of the activity (according
Line Activity to the EU Taxonomy Regulation) Condition aligned with requirements
Home Installation, maintenance and repair of energy The whole activity is aligned with the requirements
efficiency equipment (7.3) (7.3 a-e). For the detail, because:
•
see the points already discussed above. it makes a substantial contribution to climate
change mitigation as no specific technical
Vivi Meglio Installation, maintenance and repair of screening criteria are required;
•
Unifamiliare instruments and devices for measuring, it complies overall with DNSH criteria for the
(Home) regulation and controlling energy performance adaptation and pollution goals;
•
of buildings (7.5) - Installation, maintenance and it complies overall with minimum social
repair of zoned thermostats, smart thermostat safeguards.
systems and sensing equipment, including.
motion and day light control (7.5 a).
Condominium Installation, maintenance and repair of
renewable energy technologies (7.6) -
Installation, maintenance and repair of solar
photovoltaic systems and the ancillary technical
equipment (7.6 a).
Customer Insight Professional services related to energy The whole activity is aligned with the requirements
(Industry) performance of buildings (9.3). because:
•
it makes a substantial contribution to climate
change mitigation as no specific technical
screening criteria are required;
•
it complies overall with DNSH criteria for the
adaptation goal;
•
it complies overall with minimum social
Enel X
safeguards.
Distributed energy Installation, maintenance and repair of energy The whole activity is aligned with the requirements
(Industry) efficiency equipment (7.3) - Installation and because:
•
replacement of energy efficient light sources (7.3 it makes a substantial contribution to climate
d) - Installation, replacement, maintenance and change mitigation as no specific technical
repair of heating, ventilation and air-conditioning screening criteria are required;
•
(HVAC) and water heating systems, including it complies overall with DNSH criteria for the
equipment related to district heating services, adaptation and pollution goals;
•
with highly efficient technologies (7.3 e) - it complies overall with minimum social
Installation, maintenance and repair of safeguards.
renewable energy technologies (7.6) - Installation,
maintenance and repair of solar photovoltaic
systems and the ancillary technical equipment
(7.6 a).
Battery energy Installation, maintenance and repair of The whole activity is aligned with the requirements
storage (Industry) renewable energy technologies (7.6) - because:
•
Installation, maintenance and repair of thermal it makes a substantial contribution to climate
or electric energy storage units and the change mitigation as no specific technical
ancillary technical equipment (7.6 f). screening criteria are required;
•
it complies overall with DNSH criteria for the
adaptation goal;
•
it complies overall with minimum social
safeguards.
Electric mobility Installation, maintenance and repair of The whole activity is aligned with the requirements
charging stations for electric vehicles in because:
•
buildings (and parking spaces attached to it makes a substantial contribution to climate
buildings) (7.4) - Infrastructure for personal change mitigation, as no specific technical
e-Mobility mobility, cycle logistics (6.13). screening criteria are required;
•
it complies overall with DNSH criteria for all
objectives;
•
it complies overall with minimum social
safeguards.
Eligible-not aligned activities
Description of the activity (according
Business Line Activity to the EU Taxonomy Regulation) Eligible but not aligned condition
Electricity generation (4.5) - Construction or operation of 0.7% of installed capacity is eligible but not aligned
from hydropower electricity generation facilities that because it was not possible to verify the technical
produce electricity from hydropower. screening criteria related to power density and thus
Power to the life cycle greenhouse gas intensity.
Generation
Electricity generation (4.29) - Construction or operation 100% of installed capacity is eligible but not aligned
from fossil gaseous of electricity generation facilities because all power plants exceed the threshold of 100
fuels that produce electricity from fossil gCO /kWh measured on life cycle basis, while also
2eq
gaseous fuels. the alternative criteria are not satisfied.
It refers to thermal power plants with
CCGT technology.
Transmission and Transmission and distribution of Infrastructures built during the year and dedicated
distribution of electricity (4.9) - Construction and to the realization of a direct connection or the
electricity operation of transmission systems expansion of an existing direct connection between
that transport the electricity on the a substation or grid and a power plant with a
extra high-voltage and high-voltage greenhouse gas intensity exceeding the threshold of
interconnected system. 100 gCO /kWh measured on a life cycle basis.
2eq
Construction and operation of
Enel Grids
distribution systems that transport The DSOs in Argentina and Colombia have a GHG
electricity on high-voltage, medium intensity in excess of 100 gCO /kWh, and belong
2eq
voltage and low-voltage distribution to electrical systems where less than 67% of newly
systems. installed capacity in the last five years has a life
cycle GHG intensity of less than 100 gCO /kWh,
2eq
according to the latest data available from national
authorities.
Not eligible activities
Business Line Activity Description of the activity Not eligible condition
Generation of electricity Construction and operation of The activity has been excluded from the EU
from coal and liquid coalfired and liquid fossil fuel power Taxonomy Regulation as it is considered very harmful.
fossil fuels plants.
It refers to thermal power plants that
combine fuel-oil and gas (OCGT)
Power technologies, for which a further
generation breakdown is not feasible.
Electricity generated by Construction and operation of nuclear The business activity performed by Enel in its
nuclear power plants power plants. nuclear power plants in Spain has not been explicitly
mentioned in the Complementary Delegated Act,
and it does not fit within the three specific nuclear-
related activities identified in such delegated act.
Energy sales (wholesale) Wholesale of power and related This activity is not considered in the Climate
Trading
activities. Delegated Act.
Electricity and gas sales Retail sales of electricity and gas by This activity is not considered in the Climate
Market
(end customers) Group companies. Delegated Act.
Other activities Financial services, hardware and These activities are not considered in the Climate
Enel X software, insurance policies and other Delegated Act.
general services.
Process for calculating the financial metrics
•
During the process of calculating the financial metrics, the Aggregate financial data in the report refer to the “sec-
following criteria were adopted and the following consid- tor” level and include items related to third parties and
erations made. inter sectorial exchanges.
• •
The three financial metrics required by the EU Taxonomy Financial metrices were represented by considering all
Regulation (turnover, capital expenditure - Capex – and electricity and gas sales as “not eligible”. An additional
operating expenditure – Opex) were calculated accord- analysis has been performed in the last section of the
ing to the eligibility analysis described in the previous chapter to provide a view of the results if part of this
section. business activity would be considered aligned to the EU
Taxonomy.
•
Although not expressly required, Enel also performed
•
an assessment in terms of the ordinary gross operating The figures for 2021 have been restated to integrate the
profit (EBITDA) believing that this metric represents the following methodological changes:
–
actual financial performance of integrated utilities such Electricity generation from fossil gaseous fuels: it
as Enel. A metric that considers only turnover is strongly has been considered as eligible-not aligned after ap-
influenced by the business activities with a high volume plying the criteria set out in the Complementary Dele-
of revenues (such as the wholesale market – trading) that gated Act (previously represented as not eligible).
–
do not contribute proportionally to growth in the ordi- Transmission and distribution of electricity: it has
nary gross operating profit to the same extent as other been performed a reassessment of the eligibility sta-
business activities. tus of the distribution activity in Colombia to take into
account updated data from the national electricity
•
The financial information was gathered from the digital system concerning the new renewable capacity built
accounting system used by the Enel Group, or from the in the last five years, causing a change in the status
management systems in use by the Company’s Business from eligible-aligned to eligible not-aligned. In ad-
Lines. However, some proxies were delegated to provide dition, there have been implemented minor adjust-
a more detailed representation of the figures or to ex- ments on the criteria to identify the infrastructure
clude specific activities from the overall calculation of el- dedicated to creating a direct connection or expand-
igible alignment (such as not aligned hydroelectric power ing an existing direct connection between a substa-
generation or infrastructure considered eligible but not tion or network and a power production plant that is
aligned among eligible and aligned distribution network more greenhouse gas intensive than 100 gCO /kWh
2eq
systems). For example, the following proxies were used: measured on a life cycle basis.
– –
hydroelectric: eligible-not aligned hydroelectric pow- Electricity retail: it is now considered not eligible
er plants were excluded by considering their output (previously represented as eligible) as it has not been
multiplied by the average turnover per unit in the explicitly mentioned in the Climate Delegated Act.
–
years 2021 and 2022. This approach was also extend- Enel X Global Retail: cogeneration from fossil gaseous
ed to Capex, Opex and EBITDA; fuels (CHP), within the distributed energy solutions, is
–
distribution: new connections between a substation now considered eligible-not aligned after applying
or grid and a power plant with a greenhouse gas in- the criteria set out in the Complementary Delegated
tensity above the threshold of 100 gCO /kWh were Act (previously considered as not eligible).
2eq
–
excluded considering their capacity (in MW) multi- Capex: they now cover costs that are accounted
plied by the average turnover per unit (k€/ MW) for based on IFRS 16 Leases, paragraph 53, point (h), as
the years 2021 and 2022. This approach was only ap- requested by the Commission Delegated Regulation
plied to turnover and Capex. (EU) 2021/2178.
•
Absolute turnover/Capex/Opex/EBITDA correspond to Opex/EBITDA of each individual economic activity con-
the turnover/Capex/Opex/EBITDA (measured in euros) tributes to achieving climate change mitigation targets.
of each specific activity. The share of individual KPIs This is the only objective of the EU Taxonomy Regula-
corresponds to each individual economic activity in the tion alignment analysis shown in the tables due to lack of
total turnover/Capex/EBITDA of the Group (except for comprehensive financial information in Enel’s account-
Opex, the total of which refers only to the type of costs ing system, while the criteria for the other four environ-
required by the taxonomy). The share of turnover/Capex/ mental objectives are not yet available.
Statement on the alignment of Enel’s business
to the EU Taxonomy Regulation
Overall results
•
The high level of alignment of our economic activities with 56.7% of the ordinary gross operating profit (EBITDA) in
the EU Taxonomy Regulation in 2022, made possible by 2022 relates to business activities aligned with the EU
their substantial contribution to the climate change mit- Taxonomy Regulation, compared to 63.9% in 2021.(2) The
igation objective while respecting the principle of Do No EBITDA percentage of taxonomy eligible and aligned
Significant Harm (DNSH) to other environmental objective businesses decreased in 2022 compared to 2021, pri-
and observing the minimum social safeguards, is shown marily due to changes in revenue (see details below).
below.
EBITDA (ordinary)
2022
56.7%
Eligible-aligned
Eligible-not aligned
Not eligible
€19.7
27.7% billion
15.6%
(2) 2021 figure has been restated based on methodological changes mentioned in the section “Process for calculating the financial metrics”.
•
21.4% of turnover in 2022 relates to business activities as power generation from gaseous fuels and non-eligible
aligned with the EU Taxonomy Regulation, compared to activities such as trading and power and gas commercial-
33.9% in 2021.(3) ization and electricity generation from coal, mainly due to
There is a high increase in absolute terms in turnover in the market situation with high prices and higher thermal
the year 2022 compared to the year 2021. This increase production. So, the turnover aligned decrease 12%.
has been experienced more in non-aligned activities such
Turnover
21.4%
Eligible-aligned
2022
Eligible-not aligned
Not eligible
7.9%
€143.0
billion
70.7%
•
81.9% of capital expenditure (Capex) in 2022 relates to investments in absolute terms in eligible-aligned activities
business activities aligned with the EU Taxonomy Regu- than planned (more than 0.5 billion euros), and also to the
lation, compared to 82.0% in 2021.(3) adjustments made in the EU taxonomy accounting pro-
The actual 2022 Capex for eligible-aligned activities is 4.5% cess such as the addition of the costs accounted based
higher than the Capex planned for 2022 in the 2022-2024 on IFRS 16 Leases, paragraph 53, point (h), which were not
Strategic Plan for the same activities, mainly due to higher considered in the 2022-2024 Strategic Plan.
Capex
81.9%
Eligible-aligned
2022
Eligible-not aligned
11.8% Not eligible
6.3%
€15.1
billion(1)
(1) Also includes the increases
in assets deriving from leasing
operations (for 0.6 billion euros).
(3) 2021 figure has been restated based on methodological changes mentioned in the section “Process for calculating the financial metrics”.
•
66.9% of operating expenses (Opex) in 2022 relates to The percentage of Opex of taxonomy eligible and aligned
business activities aligned with the EU Taxonomy Regu- activities increases in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily
lation, compared to 60.8% in 2021.(4) due to higher maintenance costs incurred in renewable
energy production and taxonomy-aligned distribution ac-
tivities.
Opex (ordinary)
2022 66.9% Eligible-aligned
Eligible-not aligned
Not eligible
20.3%
€1.1
billion(1)
12.8%
(1) Only expenses required by the taxonomy.
(4) 2021 figure has been restated based on methodological changes mentioned in the section “Process for calculating the financial metrics”.
Overall results with power retail
tivities. In this way, power sales to end customers would
activities view be linked to the production source, promoting retailers to
sell power from sustainable sources. This fact is even more
relevant in integrated utilities that, even though operate
The EU Taxonomy Climate Delegated Act has not explic- in the power production and power retail segments with
itly included the segment referred to retail power sales different companies within the same Group, the business
(with NACE code D35.1.4), deducting that it does not pro- model is run following a comprehensive and unique view of
vide a substantial contribution to climate change mitiga- the whole power value chain.
tion. Nevertheless, retail power constitutes a fundamental Therefore, we present here an additional view of the overall
segment of the power value chain. The exclusion of such results considering the power retail activity as eligible and
activity from the definition of a sustainable power system determining its alignment by applying the same criteria
hinders the key role of the EU market liberalization and ul- that exist for power production. To this end, we have relied
timately the efforts and value of a decarbonized end use on the Guarantees of Origin instruments available in Italy
energy consumption. and Spain, since they provide transparency to consumers
Furthermore, electrification, powered by renewable en- about the proportion of electricity that retailers source
ergy, is the most efficient and cost-effective solution to from renewable generation, thus it meets the existing EU
tackle climate change as it is clean, affordable, and high Taxonomy criteria referred to power production activities.
performing, as well as being the only path for a truly clean Consequently, turnover from power sales was calculated
energy system. Nevertheless, sustainable electrification of considering the quantity of power sold at retail level by
end energy uses requires not only clean technologies in Group companies in Italy and Spain using Guarantees of
power generation, but also power retail companies to of- Origin (based on data from national authorities), applying
fer renewable electricity to end customers to satisfy their the average turnover per unit. This approach has also been
energy demand. adopted for Capex, Opex and ordinary gross operating
For the reasons stated above, Enel is convinced that the EU profit (EBITDA). To avoid double counting, the eligible turn-
Taxonomy should explicitly consider retail power activity over per sector is net of inter-sectorial exchanges (rela-
as an eligible activity for which alignment should rely on tions between Enel Green Power, Enel Grids and Retail).
the same criteria available for electricity production ac-
Overall results with power retail view Unit 2022 2021
Ordinary gross operating margin (EBITDA)
- Eligible-aligned % 57.6 67.0
- Eligible-not aligned % 19.2 18.5
- Not eligible % 23.2 14.5
Total millions of euro 19,683 19,210
Turnover “Revenue”
- Eligible-aligned % 30.2 40.4
- Eligible-not aligned % 34.2 35.5
- Not eligible % 35.6 24.1
Total millions of euro 143,009 88,006
Capital expenses (Capex) “Investments”
- Eligible-aligned % 83.0 82.7
- Eligible-not aligned % 9.2 9.6
- Not eligible % 7.8 7.7
Total millions of euro 15,088 13,831
Operating expenses (Opex)
- Eligible-aligned % 66.9 61.1
- Eligible-not aligned % 14.2 15.7
- Not eligible % 18.9 23.2
Total millions of euro 1,050 1,029
Detailed results
The following tables are represented according to what is required by Article 8 of EU Regulation 852/2020, therefore consid-
ering the activity of electricity sales as “not eligible”.
EBITDA (ordinary)
DNSH criteria
Substantial contribution criteria Category(8)
(“Do No Significant Harm”)
Tax-
Economic onomy
activities Code
gnitarepo
ssorg yranidrO
2202
)1()ADTIBE(
tfiorp
yranidro
fo noirtoporP
tfiorp
gnitarepo
ssorg
2202 )2()ADTIBE( egnahc etamilC )3(noitagitim egnahc etamilC )4(noitatpada eniram dna
retaW
)4(secruoser )4(ymonoce ralucriC )4(noitulloP dna ytisrevidoiB )4(smetsysoce egnahc etamilC )5(noitagitim egnahc etamilC )6(noitatpada eniram dna
retaW
)6(secruoser )6(ymonoce ralucriC )6(noitulloP dna ytisrevidoiB )6(smetsysoce
)7(sdraugefas
muminiM dengila-ymonoxaT
yranidro
fo noirtoporp
tfiorp
gnitarepo
ssorg
2202 )2()ADTIBE( dengila-ymonoxaT
yranidro
fo noirtoporp
tfiorp
gnitarepo
ssorg
1202 )2()ADTIBE( ytivitca gnilbanE ytivitca lanoitisnarT
millions of
euro % % % % % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % % E T
A.1 Environmentally sustainable
activities (taxonomy-aligned)
Electricity generation from
4.3 2,094 10.6 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y n.a. Y Y 10.6 7.3
wind power
Electricity generation using
4.1 591 3.0 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y n.a. Y Y 3.0 2.0
solar photovoltaic technology
Electricity generation from
4.5 1,178 6.0 99.4 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y Y n.a. n.a. Y Y 6.0 14.4
hydropower
Electricity generation from
4.6 -139 -0.7 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y Y n.a. n.a. Y Y -0.7 1.2
geothermal
Storage of electricity 4.10 0 0.0 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y Y Y n.a. Y Y 0.0 0.0
Transmission and distribution
4.9 7,137 36.3 92.5 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y Y Y Y 36.3 37.6 E
of electricity
Installation, maintenance and
repair of energy efficiency
equipment 7.3 d 91 0.5 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y 0.5 0.4
(Enel X - Smart Lighting)
Urban and suburban transport,
road passenger transport 6.3 a 37 0.2 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y Y n.a. Y 0.2 0.1
(Enel X - e-Bus)
Installation, maintenance and
repair of energy efficiency
equipment 7.3 a-e 1 0.0 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y 0.0 0.0
(Enel X - Energy Efficiency)
7.3 Installation, maintenance
and repair of energy efficiency
equipment
7.5 Installation, maintenance
and repair of instruments
and devices for measuring,
regulation and controlling 7.3 a-e;
energy performance of 7.5 a; 202 1.0 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y 1.0 0.6
buildings 7.6 a
7.6 Installation, maintenance
and repair of renewable
energy technologies
(Enel X - Home/Vivi Meglio
Unifamiliare)
Professional services related
to energy performance of
buildings 9.3 7 0.0 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y 0.0 0.1
(Enel X - Customer Insight)
Individual renovation measures
consisting in installation,
maintenance or repair of 7.3 (a-e) 46 0.2 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y 0.2 0.5
energy efficiency equipment
(Enel X - Condominium)
SEITIVITCA
DENGILA-ELBIGILE
YMONOXAT
.1.A
DNSH criteria
Substantial contribution criteria Category(8)
(“Do No Significant Harm”)
Tax-
Economic onomy
activities Code
gnitarepo
ssorg yranidrO
2202
)1()ADTIBE(
tfiorp
yranidro
fo noirtoporP
tfiorp
gnitarepo
ssorg
2202 )2()ADTIBE( egnahc etamilC )3(noitagitim egnahc etamilC )4(noitatpada eniram dna
retaW
)4(secruoser )4(ymonoce ralucriC )4(noitulloP dna ytisrevidoiB )4(smetsysoce egnahc etamilC )5(noitagitim egnahc etamilC )6(noitatpada eniram dna
retaW
)6(secruoser )6(ymonoce ralucriC )6(noitulloP dna ytisrevidoiB )6(smetsysoce
)7(sdraugefas
muminiM dengila-ymonoxaT
yranidro
fo noirtoporp
tfiorp
gnitarepo
ssorg
2202 )2()ADTIBE( dengila-ymonoxaT
yranidro
fo noirtoporp
tfiorp
gnitarepo
ssorg
1202 )2()ADTIBE( ytivitca gnilbanE ytivitca lanoitisnarT
millions of
euro % % % % % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % % E T
7.3 Installation, maintenance
and repair of energy efficiency
equipment
7.6 Installation, maintenance 7.3 d, e; 12 0.1 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y 0.1 0.0
and repair of renewable 7.6 a
energy technologies
(Enel X - Distributed Energy)
Installation, maintenance and
repair of renewable energy
technologies 7.6 f 2 0.0 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y 0.0 0.0
(Enel X - Battery Energy
Storage)
6.13 Infrastructure for
personal mobility
7.4 Installation, maintenance
and repair of charging 6.13;
stations for electric vehicles in 7.4 -94 -0.5 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y Y Y Y Y Y -0.5 -0.3
buildings (and parking spaces
attached to buildings)
(e-Mobility)
Ordinary EBITDA of
environmentally sustainable
11,165 56.7 95.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 56.7 63.9
activities (Taxonomy-aligned)
(A.1)
A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not
environmentally sustainable
activities (not taxonomy-
aligned activities)
Electricity generation from
4.5 -7 0.0 0.0 0.1
hydropower
Transmission and distribution
of electricity (Argentina,
Colombia and new
4.9 576 2.9 2.9 2.0
connections between a
substation and power plant
>100gCO /kWh)
2eq
Electricity generation from
4.29 2,492 12.7 12.7 6.1
fossil gaseous fuels (CCGT)(9)
Ordinary EBITDA of
taxonomy-eligible but not
environmentally sustainable 3,061 15.6 15.6 8.2
activities (not taxonomy-
aligned activities) (A.2)
Total (A.1 + A.2) 14,226 72.3 72.3 72.1
TON-ELBIGILE
YMONOXAT
.2.A
SEITIVITCA
DENGILA-ELBIGILE
YMONOXAT
.1.A
SEITIVITCA
DENGILA
DNSH criteria
Substantial contribution criteria Category(8)
(“Do No Significant Harm”)
Tax-
Economic onomy
activities Code
gnitarepo
ssorg yranidrO
2202
)1()ADTIBE(
tfiorp
yranidro
fo noirtoporP
tfiorp
gnitarepo
ssorg
2202 )2()ADTIBE( egnahc etamilC )3(noitagitim egnahc etamilC )4(noitatpada eniram dna
retaW
)4(secruoser )4(ymonoce ralucriC )4(noitulloP dna ytisrevidoiB )4(smetsysoce egnahc etamilC )5(noitagitim egnahc etamilC )6(noitatpada eniram dna
retaW
)6(secruoser )6(ymonoce ralucriC )6(noitulloP dna ytisrevidoiB )6(smetsysoce
)7(sdraugefas
muminiM dengila-ymonoxaT
yranidro
fo noirtoporp
tfiorp
gnitarepo
ssorg
2202 )2()ADTIBE( dengila-ymonoxaT
yranidro
fo noirtoporp
tfiorp
gnitarepo
ssorg
1202 )2()ADTIBE( ytivitca gnilbanE ytivitca lanoitisnarT
millions of
euro % % % % % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % % E T
B. Taxonomy-not-eligible
activities
Electricity generation from
n.a. 1,297 6.6
coal
Electricity generation from
n.a. 651 3.3
nuclear
Electricity generation from
n.a. -415 -2.1
fuel-oil and OCGT(10)
Enel X (only activities not
n.a. 273 1.4 eligible)
Trading activities (Energy sales
n.a. 2,282 11.6
- wholesale)
Market (Gas sales - end
n.a. 151 0.8
customer)
Market (Power sales - end
n.a. 885 4.5
customer)
Services, Holding & Others n.a. -167 -0.9
Elisions and adjustments n.a. 500 2.5
Ordinary EBITDA of
taxonomy-not-eligible 5,457 27.7
activities (B)
Total (A + B) 19,683 100.0
(1) Ordinary gross operating profit (EBITDA): it refers to the absolute amount of EBITDA from each single economic activity, allocated according to its eligi-
bility condition. If the same activity is reported both in A.1 and A.2 or B, the figure reported in each single field reflects the proportion of the activity that
satisfies the eligibility conditions established in A.1, A.2 or B respectively.
(2) Proportion of ordinary gross operating profit (EBITDA): the proportion of the EBITDA of each single economic activity from total Group EBITDA.
(3) Climate change mitigation: it refers to the proportion of EBITDA from each economic activity that contributes to climate change mitigation.
(4) Not applicable objectives: no substantial contribution criteria have been defined for this objective before the release of the 2022 Sustainability Report.
(5) DNSH - Climate change mitigation: it is not applicable as the analysis of total substantial contribution criteria has been performed for climate change
mitigation objective exclusively.
(6) DNSH: it details whether the DNSH criteria for each environmental objective is met in each single economic activity that has been reported (yes/no), while
if no specific criteria have to be verified (n.a., not applicable).
(7) Minimum safeguards: it details whether the minimum safeguards are met in each single economic activity that has been reported.
(8) Category: it details whether the activity provides a direct contribution to climate mitigation or it is an enabling or transitional activity.
(9) Includes CHP (Combined Heat and Power) activity of €1 million in 2022.
(10) Electricity generation from fuel-oil and OCGT: it refers to thermal power plants that use fuel-oil and/or gas (OCGT), for which a breakdown by technology
is not available.
SEITIVITCA
ELBIGILE-TON-YMONOXAT
.B
Turnover
DNSH criteria
Substantial contribution criteria Category(8)
(“Do No Significant Harm”)
Tax-
Economic onomy
activities Code
revonruT
etulosbA
2202
)1(”eunever“
revonruT
fo noirtoporP
2202
)2(”eunever“
egnahc
etamilC )3(noitagitim
egnahc
etamilC )4(noitatpada
eniram
dna
retaW
)4(secruoser
)4(ymonoce
ralucriC )4(noitulloP
dna
ytisrevidoiB )4(smetsysoce
egnahc
etamilC )5(noitagitim
egnahc
etamilC )6(noitatpada
eniram
dna
retaW
)6(secruoser
)6(ymonoce
ralucriC )6(noitulloP
dna
ytisrevidoiB )6(smetsysoce
)7(sdraugefas
muminiM
dengila-ymonoxaT
revonruT
fo noirtoporp
2202
)2(”eunever“
dengila-ymonoxaT
revonruT
fo noirtoporp
1202
)2(”eunever“
ytivitca
gnilbanE
ytivitca
lanoitisnarT
millions of
euro % % % % % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % % E T
A.1 Environmentally sustainable
activities (taxonomy-aligned)
Electricity generation from
4.3 3,375 2.4 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y n.a. Y Y 2.4 2.7
wind power
Electricity generation using
4.1 1,020 0.7 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y n.a. Y Y 0.7 0.9
solar photovoltaic technology
Electricity generation from
4.5 4,298 3.0 99.5 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y Y n.a. n.a. Y Y 3.0 6.8
hydropower
Electricity generation from
4.6 624 0.4 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y Y n.a. n.a. Y Y 0.4 0.4
geothermal
Storage of electricity 4.10 0 0.0 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y Y Y n.a. Y Y 0.0 0.0
Transmission and distribution
4.9 19,873 13.9 91.9 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y Y Y Y 13.9 21.9 E
of electricity
Installation, maintenance and
repair of energy efficiency
equipment 7.3 d 307 0.2 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y 0.2 0.3
(Enel X - Smart Lighting)
Urban and suburban transport,
road passenger transport 6.3 a 135 0.1 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y Y n.a. Y 0.1 0.1
(Enel X - e-Bus)
Installation, maintenance and
repair of energy efficiency
equipment 7.3 a-e 20 0.0 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y 0.0 0.0
(Enel X - Energy Efficiency)
7.3 Installation, maintenance
and repair of energy efficiency
equipment
7.5 Installation, maintenance
and repair of instruments
and devices for measuring,
regulation and controlling 7.3 a-e;
energy performance of 7.5 a; 458 0.3 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y 0.3 0.4
buildings 7.6 a
7.6 Installation, maintenance
and repair of renewable
energy technologies
(Enel X - Home/Vivi Meglio
Unifamiliare)
Professional services related
to energy performance of
buildings 9.3 72 0.1 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y 0.1 0.1
(Enel X - Customer Insight)
Individual renovation measures
consisting in installation,
maintenance or repair of 7.3 (a-e) 106 0.1 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y 0.1 0.1
energy efficiency equipment
(Enel X - Condominium)
SEITIVITCA
DENGILA-ELBIGILE
YMONOXAT
.1.A
DNSH criteria
Substantial contribution criteria Category(8)
(“Do No Significant Harm”)
Tax-
Economic onomy
activities Code
revonruT
etulosbA
2202
)1(”eunever“
revonruT
fo noirtoporP
2202
)2(”eunever“
egnahc
etamilC )3(noitagitim
egnahc
etamilC )4(noitatpada
eniram
dna
retaW
)4(secruoser
)4(ymonoce
ralucriC )4(noitulloP
dna
ytisrevidoiB )4(smetsysoce
egnahc
etamilC )5(noitagitim
egnahc
etamilC )6(noitatpada
eniram
dna
retaW
)6(secruoser
)6(ymonoce
ralucriC )6(noitulloP
dna
ytisrevidoiB )6(smetsysoce
)7(sdraugefas
muminiM
dengila-ymonoxaT
revonruT
fo noirtoporp
2202
)2(”eunever“
dengila-ymonoxaT
revonruT
fo noirtoporp
1202
)2(”eunever“
ytivitca
gnilbanE
ytivitca
lanoitisnarT
millions of
euro % % % % % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % % E T
7.3 Installation, maintenance
and repair of energy efficiency
equipment
7.6 Installation, maintenance 7.3 d, e; 132 0.1 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y 0.1 0.1
and repair of renewable 7.6 a
energy technologies
(Enel X - Distributed Energy)
Installation, maintenance and
repair of renewable energy
technologies 7.6 f 31 0.0 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y 0.0 0.0
(Enel X - Battery Energy
Storage)
6.13 Infrastructure for
personal mobility
7.4 Installation, maintenance
and repair of charging 6.13;
stations for electric vehicles in 7.4 185 0.1 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y Y Y Y Y Y 0.1 0.1
buildings (and parking spaces
attached to buildings)
(e-Mobility)
Turnover of environmentally
sustainable activities 30,636 21.4 94.5 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 21.4 33.9
(taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)
A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not
environmentally sustainable
activities (not taxonomy-
aligned activities)
Electricity generation from
4.5 20 0.0 0.0 0.0
hydropower
Transmission and distribution of
electricity (Argentina, Colombia
and new connections between 4.9 1,754 1.3 1.3 1.5
a substation and power plant
>100gCO /kWh)
2eq
Electricity generation from fossil
4.29 9,506 6.6 6.6 5.9
gaseous fuels (CCGT)(9)
Turnover of taxonomy-eligible
but not environmentally
sustainable activities (not 11,280 7.9 7.9 7.4
taxonomy-aligned activities)
(A.2)
Total (A.1 + A.2) 41,916 29.3 29.3 41.3
TON-ELBIGILE
YMONOXAT
.2.A
SEITIVITCA
DENGILA-ELBIGILE
YMONOXAT
.1.A
SEITIVITCA
DENGILA
DNSH criteria
Substantial contribution criteria Category(8)
(“Do No Significant Harm”)
Tax-
Economic onomy
activities Code
revonruT
etulosbA
2202
)1(”eunever“
revonruT
fo noirtoporP
2202
)2(”eunever“
egnahc
etamilC )3(noitagitim
egnahc
etamilC )4(noitatpada
eniram
dna
retaW
)4(secruoser
)4(ymonoce
ralucriC )4(noitulloP
dna
ytisrevidoiB )4(smetsysoce
egnahc
etamilC )5(noitagitim
egnahc
etamilC )6(noitatpada
eniram
dna
retaW
)6(secruoser
)6(ymonoce
ralucriC )6(noitulloP
dna
ytisrevidoiB )6(smetsysoce
)7(sdraugefas
muminiM
dengila-ymonoxaT
revonruT
fo noirtoporp
2202
)2(”eunever“
dengila-ymonoxaT
revonruT
fo noirtoporp
1202
)2(”eunever“
ytivitca
gnilbanE
ytivitca
lanoitisnarT
millions of
euro % % % % % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % % E T
B. Taxonomy-not-eligible
activities
Electricity generation from coal n.a. 6,500 4.5
Electricity generation from
n.a. 1,572 1.1
nuclear
Electricity generation from fuel-
n.a. 2,162 1.5
oil and OCGT(10)
Enel X (only activities non
n.a. 951 0.7
elegible)
Trading activities (Energy sales -
n.a. 56,969 39.8
wholesale)
Market (Gas sales - end
n.a. 12,049 8.4
customer)
Market (Power sales - end
n.a. 50,763 35.5
customer)
Services, Holding & Others n.a. 2,062 1.5
Elisions and adjustments n.a. -31,935 -22.3
Turnover of taxonomy-not-
101,093 70.7
eligible activities (B)
Total (A + B) 143,009 100.0
(1) Absolute turnover “revenue”: it refers to the absolute amount of turnover from each single economic activity, allocated according to its eligibility condition.
If the same activity is reported both in A.1 and A.2 or B, the figure reported in each single field reflects the proportion of the activity that satisfies the eligibility
conditions established in A.1, A.2 or B respectively.
(2) Proportion of turnover “revenue”: the proportion of the turnover of each single economic activity from total Group turnover.
(3) Climate change mitigation: it refers to the proportion of turnover from each economic activity that contributes to climate change mitigation.
(4) Not applicable objectives: no substantial contribution criteria have been defined for this objective before the release of the 2022 Sustainability Report.
(5) DNSH - Climate change mitigation: it is not applicable as the analysis of total substantial contribution criteria has been performed for climate change mit-
igation objective exclusively.
(6) DNSH: It details whether the DNSH criteria for each environmental objective is met in each single economic activity that has been reported (yes/no), while if
no specific criteria have to be verified (n.a., not applicable).
(7) Minimum safeguards: it details whether the minimum safeguards are met in each single economic activity that has been reported.
(8) Category: it details whether the activity provides a direct contribution to climate mitigation or it is an enabling or transitional activity.
(9) Includes CHP (Combined Heat and Power) activity of €41 million in 2022.
(10) Electricity generation from fuel-oil and OCGT: it refers to thermal power plants that use fuel-oil and/or gas (OCGT), for which a breakdown by technology
is not available.
SEITIVITCA
ELBIGILE-TON-YMONOXAT
.B
Capex
DNSH criteria
Substantial contribution criteria Category(8)
(“Do No Significant Harm”)
Tax-
Economic onomy
activities Code
latipac“
xepaC etulosbA 2202 )1(“erutidnepxe xepaC fo noirtoporP
)2(“erutidnepxe
latipac“
2202
egnahc etamilC )3(noitagitim egnahc etamilC )4(noitatpada eniram dna
retaW
)4(secruoser )4(ymonoce ralucriC )4(noitulloP dna ytisrevidoiB )4(smetsysoce egnahc etamilC )5(noitagitim egnahc etamilC )6(noitatpada eniram dna
retaW
)6(secruoser )6(ymonoce ralucriC )6(noitulloP dna ytisrevidoiB )6(smetsysoce
)7(sdraugefas
muminiM dengila-ymonoxaT xepaC fo noirtoporp
)2(“erutidnepxe
latipac“
2202
dengila-ymonoxaT xepaC fo noirtoporp
)2(“erutidnepxe
latipac“
1202
ytivitca gnilbanE ytivitca lanoitisnarT
millions of
euro % % % % % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % % E T
A.1 Environmentally sustainable
activities (taxonomy-aligned)
Electricity generation from
4.3 2,221 14.7 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y n.a. Y Y 14.7 21.5
wind power
Electricity generation using
4.1 3,011 20.0 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y n.a. Y Y 20.0 14.4
solar photovoltaic technology
Electricity generation from
4.5 431 2.9 99.1 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y Y n.a. n.a. Y Y 2.9 3.0
hydropower
Electricity generation from
4.6 125 0.8 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y Y n.a. n.a. Y Y 0.8 0.9
geothermal
Storage of electricity 4.10 528 3.5 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y Y Y n.a. Y Y 3.5 1.1
Transmission and distribution
4.9 5,234 34.7 93.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y Y Y Y 34.7 35.4 E
of electricity
Installation, maintenance and
repair of energy efficiency
equipment 7.3 d 84 0.5 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y 0.5 0.4
(Enel X - Smart Lighting)
Urban and suburban transport,
road passenger transport 6.3 a 1 0.0 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y Y n.a. Y 0.0 0.0
(Enel X - e-Bus)
Installation, maintenance and
repair of energy efficiency
equipment 7.3 a-e 9 0.1 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y 0.1 0.0
(Enel X - Energy Efficiency)
7.3 Installation, maintenance
and repair of energy efficiency
equipment
7.5 Installation, maintenance
and repair of instruments
and devices for measuring,
regulation and controlling 7.3 a-e;
energy performance of 7.5 a; 71 0.5 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y 0.5 0.4
buildings 7.6 a
7.6 Installation, maintenance
and repair of renewable
energy technologies
(Enel X - Home/Vivi Meglio
Unifamiliare)
Professional services related
to energy performance of
buildings 9.3 5 0.0 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y 0.0 0.0
(Enel X - Customer Insight)
Individual renovation measures
consisting in installation,
maintenance or repair of 7.3 (a-e) 25 0.2 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y 0.2 0.2
energy efficiency equipment
(Enel X - Condominium)
SEITIVITCA
DENGILA-ELBIGILE
YMONOXAT
.1.A
DNSH criteria
Substantial contribution criteria Category(8)
(“Do No Significant Harm”)
Tax-
Economic onomy
activities Code
latipac“
xepaC etulosbA 2202 )1(“erutidnepxe xepaC fo noirtoporP
)2(“erutidnepxe
latipac“
2202
egnahc etamilC )3(noitagitim egnahc etamilC )4(noitatpada eniram dna
retaW
)4(secruoser )4(ymonoce ralucriC )4(noitulloP dna ytisrevidoiB )4(smetsysoce egnahc etamilC )5(noitagitim egnahc etamilC )6(noitatpada eniram dna
retaW
)6(secruoser )6(ymonoce ralucriC )6(noitulloP dna ytisrevidoiB )6(smetsysoce
)7(sdraugefas
muminiM dengila-ymonoxaT xepaC fo noirtoporp
)2(“erutidnepxe
latipac“
2202
dengila-ymonoxaT xepaC fo noirtoporp
)2(“erutidnepxe
latipac“
1202
ytivitca gnilbanE ytivitca lanoitisnarT
millions of
euro % % % % % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % % E T
7.3 Installation, maintenance
and repair of energy efficiency
equipment
7.6 Installation, maintenance 7.3 d, e; 21 0.1 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y 0.1 0.1
and repair of renewable 7.6 a
energy technologies
(Enel X - Distributed Energy)
Installation, maintenance and
repair of renewable energy
technologies 7.6 f 54 0.4 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y 0.4 0.3
(Enel X - Battery Energy
Storage)
6.13 Infrastructure for
personal mobility
7.4 Installation, maintenance
and repair of charging 6.13;
stations for electric vehicles in 7.4 113 0.7 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y Y Y Y Y Y 0.7 0.6
buildings (and parking spaces
attached to buildings)
(e-Mobility)
Additions to right-of-use
assets (IFRS 16 par. 53 n.a. 418 2.8 71.5 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y Y Y Y Y Y 2.8 3.7
point h)
Capex of environmentally
sustainable activities 12,351 81.9 95.6 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 81.9 82.0
(taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)
A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not
environmentally sustainable
activities (not taxonomy-
aligned activities)
Electricity generation from
4.5 4 0.0 0.0 0.0
hydropower
Transmission and distribution of
electricity (Argentina, Colombia
and new connections between 4.9 393 2.6 2.6 2.9
a substation and power plant
>100gCO /kWh) 2eq
Electricity generation from fossil
4.29 393 2.6 2.6 2.1
gaseous fuels (CCGT)
Additions to right-of-use assets n.a. 166 1.1 1.1 1.5
(IFRS 16 par. 53 point h)
Capex of taxonomy-eligible but
not environmentally sustainable
956 6.3 6.3 6.5
activities (not taxonomy-
aligned activities) (A.2)
Total (A.1 + A.2) 13,307 88.2 88.2 88.5
TON-ELBIGILE
YMONOXAT
.2.A
SEITIVITCA
DENGILA-ELBIGILE
YMONOXAT
.1.A
SEITIVITCA
DENGILA
DNSH criteria
Substantial contribution criteria Category(8)
(“Do No Significant Harm”)
Tax-
Economic onomy
activities Code
latipac“
xepaC etulosbA 2202 )1(“erutidnepxe xepaC fo noirtoporP
)2(“erutidnepxe
latipac“
2202
egnahc etamilC )3(noitagitim egnahc etamilC )4(noitatpada eniram dna
retaW
)4(secruoser )4(ymonoce ralucriC )4(noitulloP dna ytisrevidoiB )4(smetsysoce egnahc etamilC )5(noitagitim egnahc etamilC )6(noitatpada eniram dna
retaW
)6(secruoser )6(ymonoce ralucriC )6(noitulloP dna ytisrevidoiB )6(smetsysoce
)7(sdraugefas
muminiM dengila-ymonoxaT xepaC fo noirtoporp
)2(“erutidnepxe
latipac“
2202
dengila-ymonoxaT xepaC fo noirtoporp
)2(“erutidnepxe
latipac“
1202
ytivitca gnilbanE ytivitca lanoitisnarT
millions of
euro % % % % % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % % E T
B. Taxonomy-not-eligible
activities
Electricity generation from coal n.a. 32 0.2
Electricity generation from
n.a. 142 0.9
nuclear
Electricity generation from fuel-
n.a. 238 1.6
oil and OCGT(9)
Enel X (only not eligible activities) n.a. 103 0.6
Trading activities (Energy sales -
n.a. 163 1.1
wholesale)
Market (Gas sales - end
n.a. 118 0.8
customer)
Market (Power sales - end
n.a. 603 4.0
customer)
Services, Holding & Others n.a. 219 1.5
Elisions and adjustments n.a. 162 1.1
Additions to right-of-use assets
n.a. 1 0.0
(IFRS 16 par. 53 point h)
Capex of taxonomy not eligible
1,781 11.8
activities (B)
Total (A + B) 15,088 100.0
(1) Absolute Capex “capital expenditure”: it refers to the absolute amount of Capex from each single economic activity, allocated according to its eligibility
condition. If the same activity is reported both in A.1 and A.2 or B, the figure reported in each single field reflects the proportion of the activity that satisfies
the eligibility conditions established in A.1, A.2 or B respectively.
(2) Proportion of Capex “capital expenditure”: the proportion of the Capex of each single economic activity from total Group Capex.
(3) Climate change mitigation: it refers to the proportion of Capex from each economic activity that contributes to climate change mitigation.
(4) Not applicable objectives: no substantial contribution criteria have been defined for this objective before the release of the 2022 Sustainability Report.
(5) DNSH - Climate change mitigation: it is not applicable as the analysis of total substantial contribution criteria has been performed for climate change
mitigation objective exclusively.
(6) DNSH: it details whether the DNSH criteria for each environmental objective is met in each single economic activity that has been reported (yes/no), while
if no specific criteria have to be verified (n.a., not applicable).
(7) Minimum safeguards: it details whether the minimum safeguards are met in each single economic activity that has been reported.
(8) Category: it details whether the activity provides a direct contribution to climate mitigation or it is an enabling or transitional activity.
(9) Electricity generation from fuel-oil and OCGT: it refers to thermal power plants that use fuel-oil and/or gas (OCGT), for which a breakdown by technology
is not available.
SEITIVITCA
ELBIGILE-TON-YMONOXAT
.B
Opex (ordinary)
DNSH criteria
Substantial contribution criteria Category(8)
(“Do No Significant Harm”)
Tax-
Economic onomy
activities Code
)1(xepO
etulosbA
2202
)2(xepO
fo noirtoporP
2202
egnahc
etamilC )3(noitagitim
egnahc
etamilC )4(noitatpada
eniram
dna
retaW
)4(secruoser
)4(ymonoce
ralucriC )4(noitulloP
dna
ytisrevidoiB )4(smetsysoce
egnahc
etamilC )5(noitagitim
egnahc
etamilC )6(noitatpada
eniram
dna
retaW
)6(secruoser
)6(ymonoce
ralucriC )6(noitulloP
dna
ytisrevidoiB )6(smetsysoce
)7(sdraugefas
muminiM
dengila-ymonoxaT )2(xepO
fo noirtoporp
2202
dengila-ymonoxaT )2(xepO
fo noirtoporp
1202
ytivitca
gnilbanE
ytivitca
lanoitisnarT
millions of
euro % % % % % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % % E T
A.1 Environmentally sustainable
activities (taxonomy-aligned)
Electricity generation from
4.3 76 7.2 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y n.a. Y Y 7.2 6.0
wind power
Electricity generation using
4.1 41 3.9 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y n.a. Y Y 3.9 2.6
solar photovoltaic technology
Electricity generation from
4.5 135 12.9 99.3 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y Y n.a. n.a. Y Y 12.9 11.3
hydropower
Electricity generation from
4.6 4 0.4 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y Y n.a. n.a. Y Y 0.4 0.4
geothermal
Storage of electricity 4.10 0 0.0 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y Y Y n.a. Y Y 0.0 0.0
Transmission and distribution
4.9 439 41.8 91.5 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y Y Y Y 41.8 40.2 E
of electricity
Installation, maintenance and
repair of energy efficiency
equipment 7.3 d 1 0.1 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y 0.1 0.1
(Enel X - Smart Lighting)
Urban and suburban transport,
road passenger transport 6.3 a 0 0.0 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y Y n.a. Y 0.0 0.0
(Enel X - e-Bus)
Installation, maintenance and
repair of energy efficiency
equipment 7.3 a-e 0 0.0 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y 0.0 0.0
(Enel X - Energy Efficiency)
7.3 Installation, maintenance
and repair of energy efficiency
equipment
7.5 Installation, maintenance
and repair of instruments
and devices for measuring,
regulation and controlling 7.3 a-e;
energy performance of 7.5 a; 1 0.1 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y 0.1 0.1
buildings 7.6 a
7.6 Installation, maintenance
and repair of renewable
energy technologies
(Enel X - Home/Vivi Meglio
Unifamiliare)
Professional services related
to energy performance of
buildings 9.3 1 0.1 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y 0.1 0.1
(Enel X - Customer Insight)
SEITIVITCA
DENGILA-ELBIGILE
YMONOXAT
.1.A
DNSH criteria
Substantial contribution criteria Category(8)
(“Do No Significant Harm”)
Tax-
Economic onomy
activities Code
)1(xepO
etulosbA
2202
)2(xepO
fo noirtoporP
2202
egnahc
etamilC )3(noitagitim
egnahc
etamilC )4(noitatpada
eniram
dna
retaW
)4(secruoser
)4(ymonoce
ralucriC )4(noitulloP
dna
ytisrevidoiB )4(smetsysoce
egnahc
etamilC )5(noitagitim
egnahc
etamilC )6(noitatpada
eniram
dna
retaW
)6(secruoser
)6(ymonoce
ralucriC )6(noitulloP
dna
ytisrevidoiB )6(smetsysoce
)7(sdraugefas
muminiM
dengila-ymonoxaT )2(xepO
fo noirtoporp
2202
dengila-ymonoxaT )2(xepO
fo noirtoporp
1202
ytivitca
gnilbanE
ytivitca
lanoitisnarT
millions of
euro % % % % % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % % E T
Individual renovation measures
consisting in installation,
maintenance or repair of 7.3 (a-e) 1 0.1 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y 0.1 0.0
energy efficiency equipment
(Enel X - Condominium)
7.3 Installation, maintenance
and repair of energy efficiency
equipment
7.6 Installation, maintenance 7.3 d, e; 0 0.0 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. Y n.a. Y 0.0 0.0
and repair of renewable 7.6 a
energy technologies
(Enel X - Distributed Energy)
Installation, maintenance and
repair of renewable energy
technologies 7.6 f 0 0.0 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y 0.0 0.0
(Enel X - Battery Energy
Storage)
6.13 Infrastructure for
personal mobility
7.4 Installation, maintenance
and repair of charging 6.13;
stations for electric vehicles in 7.4 3 0.3 100.0 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Y Y Y Y Y Y 0.3 0.0
buildings (and parking spaces
attached to buildings)
(e-Mobility)
Opex of environmentally
sustainable activities 702 66.9 94.4 0.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 66.9 60.8
(taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)
A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not
environmentally sustainable
activities (not taxonomy-
aligned activities)
Electricity generation from
4.5 1 0.0 0.0 0.1
hydropower
Transmission and distribution of
electricity (Argentina, Colombia
and new connections between 4.9 41 3.9 3.9 3.9
a substation and power plant
>100gCO /kWh)
2eq
Electricity generation from fossil
4.29 93 8.9 8.9 10.7
gaseous fuels (CCGT)(9)
Opex of taxonomy-eligible but
not environmentally sustainable
135 12.8 12.8 14.7
activities (not taxonomy-
aligned activities) (A.2)
Total (A.1 + A.2) 837 79.7 79.7 75.5
TON-ELBIGILE
YMONOXAT
.2.A
SEITIVITCA
DENGILA-ELBIGILE
YMONOXAT
.1.A
SEITIVITCA
DENGILA
DNSH criteria
Substantial contribution criteria Category(8)
(“Do No Significant Harm”)
Tax-
Economic onomy
activities Code
)1(xepO
etulosbA
2202
)2(xepO
fo noirtoporP
2202
egnahc
etamilC )3(noitagitim
egnahc
etamilC )4(noitatpada
eniram
dna
retaW
)4(secruoser
)4(ymonoce
ralucriC )4(noitulloP
dna
ytisrevidoiB )4(smetsysoce
egnahc
etamilC )5(noitagitim
egnahc
etamilC )6(noitatpada
eniram
dna
retaW
)6(secruoser
)6(ymonoce
ralucriC )6(noitulloP
dna
ytisrevidoiB )6(smetsysoce
)7(sdraugefas
muminiM
dengila-ymonoxaT )2(xepO
fo noirtoporp
2202
dengila-ymonoxaT )2(xepO
fo noirtoporp
1202
ytivitca
gnilbanE
ytivitca
lanoitisnarT
millions of
euro % % % % % % % Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N % % E T
B. Taxonomy-not-eligible
activities
Electricity generation from coal n.a. 36 3.4
Electricity generation from
n.a. 87 8.3
nuclear
Electricity generation from fuel-
n.a. 21 2.0
oil and OCGT(10)
Enel X (only activities non
n.a. 4 0.4
elegible)
Trading activities (Energy sales -
n.a. 4 0.4
wholesale)
Market (Gas Sales - end
n.a. 3 0.3
customer)
Market (Power Sales - end
n.a. 13 1.2
customer)
Services, Holding & Others n.a. 45 4.3
Elisions and adjustments n.a. 0 0.0
Opex of Taxonomy-non-
213 20.3
elegible activities (B)
Total (A + B) 1,050 100.0
(1) Absolute Opex: it refers to the absolute amount of Opex from each single economic activity, allocated according to its eligibility condition. If the same ac-
tivity is reported both in A.1 and A.2 or B, the figure reported in each single field reflects the proportion of the activity that satisfies the eligibility conditions
established in A.1, A.2 or B respectively.
(2) Proportion of Opex: the proportion of the Opex of each single economic activity from total Group Opex.
(3) Climate change mitigation: it refers to the proportion of Opex from each economic activity that contributes to climate change mitigation.
(4) Not applicable objectives: no substantial contribution criteria have been defined for this objective before the release of the 2022 Sustainability Report.
(5) DNSH - Climate change mitigation: it is not applicable as the analysis of total substantial contribution criteria has been performed for climate change mit-
igation objective exclusively.
(6) DNSH: it details whether the DNSH criteria for each environmental objective is met in each single economic activity that has been reported (yes/no), while if
no specific criteria have to be verified (n.a., not applicable).
(7) Minimum safeguards: it details whether the minimum safeguards are met in each single economic activity that has been reported.
(8) Category: it details whether the activity provides a direct contribution to climate mitigation or it is an enabling or transitional activity.
(9) Includes CHP (Combined Heat and Power) activity of €0.09 million in 2022.
(10) Electricity generation from fuel-oil and OCGT: it refers to thermal power plants that use fuel-oil and/or gas (OCGT), for which a breakdown by technology
is not available.
SEITIVITCA
ELBIGILE-TON-YMONOXAT
.B
Additional information on electricity generation from nuclear
and gas activities
The following figures are reported in accordance with the regards economic activities in certain energy sectors and
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1214 of March Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 as regards specific
9, 2022 amending Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2139 as public disclosures for those economic activities.
Template 1 – Nuclear and fossil gas related activities
Nuclear energy-related activities
The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development, demonstration and deployment of innovative
1 No
electricity generation facilities that produce energy from nuclear processes with minimal waste from the fuel cycle.
The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe operation of new nuclear installations to produce
2 electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production, as No
well as their safety upgrades, using best available technologies.
The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing nuclear installations that produce electricity or
3 process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production from nuclear Yes
energy, as well as their safety upgrades.
Fossil gas-related activities
The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction or operation of electricity generation facilities that produce
4 Yes
electricity using fossil gaseous fuels.
The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation of combined heat/cool and
5 No
power generation facilities using fossil gaseous fuels.
The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation of heat generation facilities
6 No
that produce heat/cool using fossil gaseous fuels.
As stated in the above table, the only applicable activities es of the Complementary Delegated Act. The remaining
for Enel are the safe operation of existing nuclear installa- templates included in such delegated act are not appli-
tions and the operation of electricity generation facilities cable according to Enel’s business model. Furthermore,
that produce electricity using fossil gaseous fuels. The first the information refers to the climate change mitigation
one is 100% not eligible while the second is 100% eligi- objective exclusively due to the lack of sufficient data to
ble-not aligned. Consequently, the following tables refer complete the analysis of the compliance with the climate
to the templates number 4 and 5 included in the annex- change adaptation objective.
Template 4 – Taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic activities
EBITDA (ordinary)
Climate mitigation
Amount
Economic activities in millions of euro %
Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred
to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the 2,492 12.7
applicable KPI
Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic activities
569 2.9
not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator of the applicable KPI
Total amount and proportion of taxonomy eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic activities in
3,061 15.6
the denominator of the applicable KPI
Turnover
Climate mitigation
Amount
Economic activities in millions of euro %
Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred
to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the 9,506 6.6
applicable KPI
Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic activities
1,774 1.2
not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator of the applicable KPI
Total amount and proportion of taxonomy eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic activities in
11,280 7.8
the denominator of the applicable KPI
Capex
Climate mitigation
Amount
Economic activities in millions of euro %
Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred
to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the 393 2.6
applicable KPI
Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic activities
563 3.7
not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator of the applicable KPI
Total amount and proportion of taxonomy eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic activities in
956 6.3
the denominator of the applicable KPI
Opex (ordinary)
Climate mitigation
Amount
Economic activities in millions of euro %
Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic activity referred
to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the 93 8.9
applicable KPI
Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic activities
42 4.0
not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator of the applicable KPI
Total amount and proportion of taxonomy eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic activities in
135 12.9
the denominator of the applicable KPI
Template 5 – Taxonomy non-eligible economic activities
EBITDA (ordinary)
Climate mitigation
Amount
Economic activities in millions of euro %
Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 3 of Template 1 that is taxonomy-
not-eligible in accordance with Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 651 3.3
in the denominator of the applicable KPI
Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-not-eligible economic activities not referred to in rows
4,806 24.4
1 to 6 above in the denominator of the applicable KPI
Total amount and proportion of taxonomy-not-eligible economic activities in the denominator of
5,457 27.7
the applicable KPI
Turnover
Climate mitigation
Amount
Economic activities in millions of euro %
Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 3 of Template 1 that is taxonomy-
not-eligible in accordance with Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 1,572 1.1
in the denominator of the applicable KPI
Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-not-eligible economic activities not referred to in rows
99,521 69.6
1 to 6 above in the denominator of the applicable KPI
Total amount and proportion of taxonomy-not-eligible economic activities in the denominator of
101,093 70.7
the applicable KPI
Capex
Climate mitigation
Amount
Economic activities in millions of euro %
Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 3 of Template 1 that is taxonomy-
not-eligible in accordance with Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 142 0.9
in the denominator of the applicable KPI
Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-not-eligible economic activities not referred to in rows
1,639 10.9
1 to 6 above in the denominator of the applicable KPI
Total amount and proportion of taxonomy-not-eligible economic activities in the denominator of
1,781 11.8
the applicable KPI
Opex (ordinary)
Climate mitigation
Amount
Economic activities in millions of euro %
Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 3 of Template 1 that is taxonomy-
not-eligible in accordance with Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 87 8.3
in the denominator of the applicable KPI
Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-not-eligible economic activities not referred to in rows
126 12.0
1 to 6 above in the denominator of the applicable KPI
Total amount and proportion of taxonomy-not-eligible economic activities in the denominator of
213 20.3
the applicable KPI
Independent auditors’ report
Green Bond Report 2022 –
supporting notes
Introduction and reporting criteria
Enel Finance International NV, the Group’s financial com- for the sixth time in 2022, meets Enel’s commitment un-
pany controlled by Enel SpA, placed three green bonds on dertaken at the time of the bond issuance to report annu-
the European market in January 2017 (1.25 billion euros), ally on the use of proceeds, on the environmental benefits
2018 (1.25 billion euros) and 2019 (1 billion euros) for a to- deriving from the projects financed and on further ESG
tal of 3.50 billion euros. The green bonds are for institu- metrics linked to these projects.
tional investors and are guaranteed by Enel SpA. The net The indicators were determined in accordance with the
issuance proceeds – carried out under the medium-term “Green Bond Framework” (December 2016, December
bond issue program of Enel and Enel Finance International 2017 and November 2018) principles and shown in the ta-
(Euro Medium-Term Notes Program - EMTN) – were used ble based on the type of project and the specific year of
to finance eligible projects according to the “Green Bond emission of the green bonds. Furthermore, all of the plant
Principles” categories, published by the ICMA (Interna- technologies as well as Grids activities in Italy for which
tional Capital Market Association). In particular, the pro- the proceeds of the green bonds issued in 2017, 2018
ceeds were used to finance: and 2019 were allocated are to be considered eligible and
•
new projects for the development, construction and re- aligned activities according to European taxonomy (Euro-
powering of generation plants from renewable sources pean Regulation 2020/852).
(green bond emission in 2017 and 2019);
•
new projects for the development, construction, repow- In order to improve transparency and facilitate under-
ering and refinancing of generation plants from renew- standing of reporting over the years, the report also pro-
able sources as well as projects for transmission, net- vides the following information:
•
works and smart grids (green bond emission in 2018). 2017 green bond reporting with evidence of projects
In order to facilitate the transparency and quality of the relating to renewable plants. Seven plants also contrib-
green bonds issued, the Enel Group has prepared and ute toward the allocation of the proceeds of the 2019
published specific “Green Bond Frameworks” for each green bond following new investments (Capex) that
year of emission, whose compliance with the reference were made;
•
principles has been confirmed by an external advisor, Vi- 2018 green bond reporting with evidence of projects
geo Eiris, who issued the so-called “second party opinion”. related to:
–
Within the frameworks, the categories relating to eligible renewable plants, three of which that contribute to-
projects are aligned with the Sustainable Development ward the allocation of the proceeds of the 2019 green
Goals of the United Nations (UN SDG), in particular Goals bond due to new investments (Capex) that were made;
–
7, 9, 11 and 13(1). “refinancing” of renewable plants due to the replace-
The reference documents for the three emissions are ment of previous credit lines;
–
available on the Enel Group’s website (https://www.enel. investment activities relating to the business area
com/investors/investing/sustainable-finance/green- “Enel Grids”;
•
bonds). 2019 green bond reporting with evidence of the pro-
The Enel Group is among the first companies in the world jects relating to renewable plants, 10 of which were also
having set up a “Green Bond Committee” with the aim of subject to reporting for the 2017 and 2018 green bonds,
selecting projects and monitoring the progress of their as described previously.
development. The reporting document hereof, published
(1) SDG 7 “Affordable and clean energy”; SDG 9 “Industry, innovation and infrastructure”; SDG 11 “Sustainable cities and communities”; SDG 13 “Climate action”.
–
Finally, in agreement with what is required by the cited the cumulative value of effective generation and the
Green Bond Framework, this document consists of the fol- relative CO avoided for the entire years of Green
2
lowing indicated below. Bond reporting;
•
Summary table of 2017, 2018 and 2019 emissions with Enel Grids projects, the following indicators are also pro-
indication of the installed capacity and the cumulative vided:
–
CO avoided for all years of Green Bond reporting. the cabling ratio, determined by the ratio between
2
the length of the cable lines and the total length of
•
Table A “Financial indicators”, which reports: the lines. The increase in this index over time is due
–
the capacity and amount of the “foreign currency in- to an increase in the length of the overhead and un-
vestment” approved by the Board of Directors and/or derground cable line to the detriment of bare con-
the Investment Committee, and communicated to the ductors; in particular, the main environmental benefits
financial market through specific press releases; concern the containment of plant cutting activities
–
the value of the “investment in euros”, calculated by and a drastic reduction in the risk of electrocution
considering the average exchange rate for the years and collision for birds;
–
2017-2019 (for projects defined in 2017), the average network automation, which corresponds to the ratio
exchange rate for the years 2018-2020 (for projects between RCP (Remote Controlled Point) and medium/
defined in 2018) and/or the average exchange rate for low-voltage equipment;
–
the years 2019-2021 (for projects defined in 2019) of technical network losses, mainly related to the char-
Enel’s Industrial Plan; acteristics/functions of the network. These losses are
–
the share of the green bond proceeds allocated to usually calculated using statistical models or bench-
the project as the difference between the total capi- marks. A reduction in technical network losses results
talized costs as at December 31, 2017, December 31, in a reduction in the energy to be generated and a
2018 and/or December 31, 2019 and the amount of consequent reduction in emissions and consumption
third-party financing associated to the specific pro- of raw materials;
–
ject(2). The amounts of proceeds allocated to the pro- the elimination of oil equipment with PCB reduces
jects in 2017, 2018 and 2019 respectively were used in the risk of contamination of a compound no longer in
the same years; production since the 1980s and classified as ecotoxic
–
the date of entry into operation corresponding to the and bioaccumulable;
–
time when the plant produced the first kWh. In this energy savings is represented in terms of “ener-
regard, it should be noted that all of the plants asso- gy saved” in MWh in place of the CO avoided (t) to
2
ciated with the three green bonds have entered into specifically report the improvement in efficiency ob-
operation(3). tained thanks to the use of so-called “in ecodesign”
transformers and the optimization of MV grids as the
•
Table B “ESG indicators” which shows the environmen- difference between losses detected before and after
tal benefit in terms of actual CO avoided. In particular, these interventions.
2
with reference to:
•
Table C “Further ESG indicators” which shows, where
renewable projects: possible and appropriate(4), as envisaged in the “second
–
the quantity of effective generation (with the excep- party opinion”(5), the following indicators for the renewa-
tion of the repowering plants whose share of gener- ble projects:
–
ation cannot be separated from the rest of the plant); water consumption related to data reported for the
–
the quantity of actual CO avoided, determined by plants in only the period following their entry into
2
multiplying the effective generation by the emission operation (from the moment there are no plants fi-
factor linked to the specific thermoelectric energy nanced by the green bonds with the “under construc-
generation of the country in which the plant is locat- tion” status);
–
ed (emission factors source: Enerdata - March 8, 2023 projects for protecting biodiversity promoted by Enel
release); in connection to the operation of the plant;
(2) If the same company is involved with the implementation of several projects, proceeds are allocated to the specific project based on the capacity.
(3) During 2022, the status of 19 MW of installed residual capacity that refers to the Italian hydroelectric repowering plants Isola Serafini I and II, Mucone I and II
changed to “in operation”. In particular, there was a variation in the method of calculating the repowering capacity of Isola Serafini. In fact, the final capacity
of the plant considered is limited by the power of the alternator with respect to what could have been obtained considering the maximum power of the
turbine.
(4) Projects relating to renewable plants with a capacity of more than 20 MW are considered to be relevant.
(5) The indicator “Material reused/recycled after revamping” is not applicable, as the proceeds of the green bond were not used to finance revamping projects
in 2017, 2018 and 2019.
– •
the cases in which the site stopped its operations Table D “Overall information” which provides the crite-
(plant shutdown) due to environmental management ria, indicators, overall information and approach chosen
issues and their impact; by Enel to develop the projects financed through the
–
fatalities or high consequence (“Life Changing”(6)) in- proceeds of the bond.
juries to Enel people; The data have been thoroughly calculated on the basis
–
activities and projects carried out to support local of the results of Enel’s accounting, non-accounting and
communities in the areas surrounding the plant. The other information systems, and validated by the persons
indicator related to the number of beneficiaries of responsible in each case. The data determined through
these projects refers to the people involved by such the use of estimates and related calculation method has
activity or project. been expressly indicated.
The above indicators in Table C, with the exception of
water consumption and plant shutdown due to environ-
mental issues, also refer to Enel Grids projects.
SUMMARY TABLE OF 2017, 2018 AND 2019 EMISSIONS WITH INDICATION OF THE INSTALLED CAPACITY AND THE
CO AVOIDED
2
GB proceeds allocated Installed capacity Cumulative CO
2
Green Bond (GB) emission Area of investment (mil €) (MW) avoided(1) (t)
2017 Renewables 1,238 3,355 25,875,420
2018 1,240
of which new renewable projects Renewables 575 1,878 10,857,053
of which new Enel Grids projects Grids 665 -(1)
2019 986 631 2,524,576
of which new projects identified in 2019 Renewables 65 631 2,524,576
of which new Capex for 2018 projects Renewables 342 n.a. -
of which new Capex for 2017 projects Renewables 579 n.a. -
(1) For Enel Grids projects, energy savings are represented in terms of “Energy saved” (MWh) in place of the CO avoided (t) to specifically report the improve-
2
ment in efficiency obtained thanks to the use of so-called “in ecodesign” transformers and the optimization of MV grids as the difference between losses
detected before and after these interventions. In 2022 this amounts to 2,963 MWh of saved energy.
(6) These are injuries that caused consequences to health that permanently changed a person’s life (for example, amputation of limbs, paralysis, neurological
damage, etc.).
Green Bond | 2017 |
Table A – Financial indicators
Investments (value in currency) GB GB
proceeds proceeds
Commercial Value in allocated allocated in
Capacity operation currency Equivalent in in 2017 (mil 2019 (mil
Country Project name Technology Status (MW) date Currency (mil) euro (mil)(1) euros) euros)(2)
USA Red Dirt Wind In Operation 300 Nov-17 USD 420 378 77 -
USA Thunder Ranch Wind In Operation 298 Nov-17 USD 435 392 132 -
USA Hilltopper Wind In Operation 185 Nov-18 USD 325 293 166 -
USA Stillwater Solar II Solar In Operation 27 May-18 USD 40 36 48 -
USA Woods Hill Solar In Operation 25 Dec-17 USD 44 41 36 -
Rattlesnake
USA Wind In Operation 320 Dec-18 USD 430 387 204 -
Creek
USA Rock Creek Wind In Operation 300 Oct-17 USD 500 450 73 -
BRAZIL Horizonte MP Solar In Operation 103 Feb-18 USD 110 99 43 -
BRAZIL Delfina Wind In Operation 209 Aug-17 USD 440 364 33 -
CHILE Cerro Pabellón Geothermal In Operation 81 Aug-17 USD 420 347 57 -
CHILE Sierra Gorda Wind In Operation 112 Dec-16 USD 215 194 17 -
PERU Wayra Wind In Operation 132 Mar-18 USD 165 149 82 -
PERU Rubi Solar In Operation 180 Nov-17 USD 170 153 68 -
Various Geothermal/
ITALY In Operation 34 - EUR 113 113 66 -
projects(3) Hydroelectric
CANADA Riverview Wind In Operation 105 Apr-20 CAD 8 81
Castel Rock 210 187
CANADA Wind In Operation 29 Mar-20 CAD 2 23
Ridge 2
MEXICO Magdalena 2 Solar In Operation 220 Sept-19 USD 165 136 9 112
MEXICO Amistad II Wind In Operation 100 Dec-19 USD 115 97 22 55
MEXICO Amistad III Wind In Operation 108 Feb-20 USD 11 59
305 269
MEXICO Amistad IV Wind In Operation 162 Dec-20 USD 18 57
MEXICO Dolores Wind In Operation 274 May-20 USD 290 255 36 192
PANAMA Estrella Solar Solar In Operation 8 Aug-18 USD 8 7 5 -
ZAMBIA Ngonye Solar In Operation 34 Mar-19 USD 40 34 10 -
Various Geothermal/
ITALY 8 - EUR 43 43 14 -
projects(4) Hydroelectric
TOTAL 1,238 579
(1) Indicative value in euros (EUR), although the investment in US dollars (USD) applies where present. The exchange rate used for projects allocated in the 2017
green bond is 1.11 USD/EUR, for projects allocated in the 2018 green bond it is 1.19 USD/EUR whereas for projects whose investment value has been upda-
ted – including those with the new Capex identified in GB 2019 – the exchange rate is 1.21.
(2) Additional proceeds were allocated for some renewable projects that were already identified in the 2017 and 2018 green bond, for which new capitalized
costs emerged.
(3) Aggregate data related to 24 small sized Italian projects. The technologies involved are geothermal and hydroelectric.
(4) Aggregate data related to 8 small sized Italian projects. The technologies involved are geothermal and hydroelectric.
Green Bond | 2017 |
Table B – ESG indicators
2022 generation CO avoided 2017-2022 generation 2017-2022 CO
2 2
Country Project name (GWh) 2022 (t) (GWh) avoided (t)
USA Red Dirt 1,013 624,620 5,147 3,253,855
USA Thunder Ranch 852 525,450 5,210 3,305,419
USA Hilltopper 621 382,546 2,326 1,445,543
USA Stillwater Solar II 24 14,572 97 61,905
USA Woods Hill 31 18,821 135 84,554
USA Rattlesnake Creek 1,165 718,195 4,519 2,802,047
USA Rock Creek 1,160 715,099 5,544 3,504,193
BRAZIL Horizonte MP 125 73,500 781 441,993
BRAZIL Delfina 805 472,285 4,408 2,479,669
CHILE Cerro Pabellón 264 219,675 1,223 939,254
CHILE Sierra Gorda 338 280,819 2,056 1,574,334
PERU Wayra 618 293,973 2,905 1,424,938
PERU Rubi 452 214,836 2,174 1,067,162
ITALY Various projects(1) 173 78,057 582 278,954
CANADA Riverview 347 224,157 923 604,297
CANADA Castel Rock Ridge 2 101 65,486 279 183,033
MEXICO Magdalena 2 518 293,793 1,500 837,394
MEXICO Amistad II 15 8,590 192 103,391
MEXICO Amistad III - 3 168 90,060
MEXICO Amistad IV 40 22,627 128 69,730
MEXICO Dolores 816 462,740 1,917 1,069,643
PANAMA Estrella Solar 9 8,336 40 31,370
ZAMBIA Ngonye 58 60,958 210 216,547
ITALY Various projects(2) - 62 12 6,136
(1) Aggregate data related to 24 small sized Italian projects. The technologies involved are geothermal and hydroelectric. The share of generation for only re-
powering cannot be separated from the rest of the plant because it is not possible to precisely determine the share of energy fed to the network only due
to the increase in power.
(2) Aggregate data related to 8 small sized Italian projects. The technologies involved are geothermal and hydroelectric. The share of generation for only re-
powering cannot be separated from the rest of the plant because it is not possible to precisely determine the share of energy fed to the network only due
to the increase in power.
Green Bond | 2017 |
Table C – Further ESG indicators
Plant shutdown
Water Actions to or site stop due Injuries (fatalities Beneficiaries of
consumption protect/restore to environmental and “Life Social projects social projects
Country Project name m3(1) biodiversity (no.) issues (no.) Changing”) (no.) (no.) (no.)
USA Red Dirt - - - - 1 20
USA Thunder Ranch - - - - 1 20
USA Hilltopper - - - - 1 38,000
USA Stillwater Solar II - - - - - -
USA Woods Hill - - - - 2 400
USA Rattlesnake Creek - - - - - -
USA Rock Creek - - - - - -
BRAZIL Horizonte MP 658 2 - - 3 918
BRAZIL Delfina - 2 - - 4 719
CHILE Cerro Pabellón 6,289 - - - 1 25
CHILE Sierra Gorda - 1 - - 1 35
PERU Wayra - 1 - - 7 3,725
PERU Rubi - - - - 9 4,584
ITALY Various projects(2) - 1 - - 4 139
CANADA Riverview - - - - 3 114
CANADA Castel Rock Ridge 2 - - - - 1 80
MEXICO Magdalena 2 2,759 - - - 4 198
MEXICO Amistad II - - - - 2 51
MEXICO Amistad III - - - - 3 98
MEXICO Amistad IV - - - - 4 121
MEXICO Dolores - 2 - - 6 157
PANAMA Estrella Solar 28 - - - 1 40
ZAMBIA Ngonye - - - - 1 594
ITALY Various projects(3) - - - - 2 6
(1) Industrial water consumption related to water extraction data for plant.
(2) Aggregate data related to 24 small sized Italian projects. The technologies involved are geothermal and hydroelectric.
(3) Aggregate data related to 8 small sized Italian projects. The technologies involved are geothermal and hydroelectric.
Green Bond | 2018 |
Table A – Financial indicators
Investments (value in currency) GB GB
proceeds proceeds
Commercial Value in allocated in allocated in
Project Capacity operation currency Equivalent in 2018 (mil 2019 (mil
Country name Technology Status (MW) date Currency (mil) euro (mil)(1) euros) euros)(2)
Diamond
USA Wind In Operation 300 Dec-18 USD 400 336 100 -
Vista
Fenner
USA Wind In Operation 29 Dec-18 USD 29 24 21 -
Repowering
High
USA Lonesome Wind In Operation 500 Dec-19 USD 720 595 81 75
I+II
USA Roadrunner Solar In Operation 497 Jun-20 USD 436 366 30 141
GERMANY Cremzow Other In Operation 22 Feb-19 USD 17 17 9 -
GREECE Kafireas Wind In Operation 154 Oct-19 EUR 300 300 64 126
COLOMBIA El Paso Solar In Operation 86 Oct-19 USD 70 59 54 -
USA Aurora Solar In Operation 150 Jun-17 USD 290 244 181 -
USA Little Elk Wind In Operation 74 Dec-15 USD 130 107 5 -
Chisholm
USA Wind In Operation 65 Dec-16 USD 90 76 29 -
View II
TOTAL 575 342
(1) Indicative value in euros (EUR), although the investment in US dollars (USD) applies where present. The exchange rate used for projects allocated in the 2017
green bond is 1.11 USD/EUR, for projects allocated in the 2018 green bond it is 1.19 USD/EUR whereas for projects whose investment value has been upda-
ted – including those with the new Capex identified in GB 2019 – the exchange rate is 1.21.
(2) Additional proceeds were allocated for some renewable projects that were already identified in the 2017 and 2018 green bond, for which new capitalized
costs emerged.
Table B – ESG indicators
2022 generation CO avoided 2018-2022 2018-2022 CO
2 2
Country Project name (GWh) 2022 (t) generation (GWh) avoided (t)
USA Diamond Vista 1,224.42 754,741.17 4,673.23 2,897,937.43
USA Fenner Repowering(1) 86.70 53,440.59 248.05 151,040.18
USA High Lonesome I+II 1,192.22 734,890.56 4,044.08 2,453,745.97
USA Roadrunner 1,009.42 622,211.80 2,847.63 1,729,630.29
GERMANY Cremzow - - - -
GREECE Kafireas 468.40 272,164.73 1,377.09 909,700.22
COLOMBIA El Paso 149.96 94,583.63 415.16 324,880.79
USA Aurora 308.50 190,161.16 1,039.08 654,277.10
USA Little Elk 307.89 189,782.69 1,626.10 1,028,123.22
USA Chisholm View II 240.66 148,344.45 1,119.87 707,717.34
(1) Unlike other repowering plants, the service life of the Fenner plant was extended and its capacity (MW) was not increased, therefore the capacity and gene-
ration data refer to the plant in its entirety.
Green Bond | 2018 |
Table C – Further ESG indicators
Actions to Plant Injuries
protect/ shutdown or (fatalities
Water restore site stop due to and “Life Beneficiaries
consumption biodiversity environmental Changing”) Social projects of social
Country Project name m3(1) (no.) issues (no.) (no.) (no.) projects (no.)
USA Diamond Vista - - - - 2 505
USA Fenner Repowering - - - - 1 150
USA High Lonesome I+II - - - - - -
USA Roadrunner - - - - - -
GERMANY Cremzow - - - - - -
GREECE Kafireas - - - - 4 332
COLOMBIA El Paso - - - - 3 1,448
USA Aurora - - - - 2 100
USA Little Elk - - - - - -
USA Chisholm View II - - - - - -
(1) Industrial water consumption related to water extraction data for plant.
Green Bond | 2018 |
Table A – Financial indicators
Green bond
proceeds
allocated to the
Investments in project in 2018
Country Project cluster Cluster Status currency (mil) (mil euros)
ITALY Smart meter Asset Development (1) - 46
ITALY Smart grid Asset Development (2) - 21
ITALY Quality&Efficiency Asset Development (2) - 305
ITALY Other ICT Investment Asset Development (2) - 52
Total Asset Development 824 424
ITALY Maintenance Asset Management (2) - 242
Total Asset Management 452 242
Total Asset Development and
1,276 666
Asset Management Country Italy
(1) As at December 31, 2018 the final figures of the project consisted of approximately 420 million euros of meters and concentrators entered into operation
in the same month as the installation and about 26 million euros for the central remote management system and related software.
(2) The final figures are composed of a very large number of interventions that include activities started in previous years and concluded in the current year,
activities started in the current year and concluded in the same year and activities started in the year and not yet completed at December 31, 2018.
Table B - ESG indicators
Renewable
generation
Oil End users units New “users”
Network equipment with active connected connected Technical Energy
automation with PCB smart meters to network to network network saved
COUNTRY - ITALY Cabling (%) (%) removed (no.) (mil) (no.) (no.) losses (%) (MWh)(1)
Total Asset Development - - - 31.56 203,919 10,584 -
2,963
Total Asset Management 75.9 - 147 - - - 3.35
(1) For Enel Grids projects, energy savings are represented in terms of “energy saved” in MWh in place of the CO avoided (t) to specifically report the improve-
2
ment in efficiency obtained thanks to the use of so-called “in ecodesign” transformers and the optimization of MV grids as the difference between losses
detected before and after these interventions.
Table C – Further ESG indicators
Injuries (fatalities and “Life Beneficiaries of social Biodiversity
Country Changing”) (no.) Social projects (no.) projects (no.) projects (no.)(1)
ITALY - 351 383,801 12
(1) The reduction in the number of biodiversity projects as compared to 2021 is due to the change in the reporting criteria that involved the combination of
multiple projects.
Green Bond | 2019 |
Table A – Financial indicators
Investments (value in currency) GB
GB proceeds GB
proceeds allocated proceeds
Commercial Value in Equivalent allocated in 2018 allocated in
Project Capacity operation currency in euro in 2017 (mil 2019 (mil
Country name Technology Status (MW) date Currency (mil) (mil)(1) (mil euros) euros) euros)(2)
USA Whitney Hill Wind In Operation 66 Dec-19 USD 281 232 - - 10
USA Aurora Wind Wind In Operation 299 Dec-20 USD 450 401 - - 10
Cimarron
USA Bend 3 Wind In Operation 199 Dec-20 USD 281 248 - - 4
phase I
AUSTRALIA Cohuna Solar In Operation 34 Jun-20 USD 42 37 - - 31
Various
ITALY Hydroelectric In Operation 33 - EUR 55 55 - - 10
projects(3)
CANADA Riverview Wind In Operation 105 Apr-20 CAD 8 - 81
210 187
Castel Rock
CANADA Wind In Operation 29 Mar-20 CAD 2 - 23
Ridge 2
MEXICO Magdalena 2 Solar In Operation 220 Sep-19 USD 165 136 9 - 112
MEXICO Amistad II Wind In Operation 100 Dec-19 USD 115 97 22 - 55
MEXICO Amistad III Wind In Operation 108 Feb-20 USD 11 - 59
305 269
MEXICO Amistad IV Wind In Operation 162 Dec-20 USD 18 - 57
MEXICO Dolores Wind In Operation 274 May-20 USD 290 255 36 - 192
High
USA Lonesome Wind In Operation 500 Dec-19 USD 720 595 - 81 75
I+II
USA Roadrunner Solar In Operation 497 Jun-20 USD 436 366 - 30 141
GREECE Kafireas Wind In Operation 154 Oct-19 USD 300 300 - 64 126
TOTAL 986
(1) Indicative value in euros (EUR), although the investment in US dollars (USD) applies where present. The exchange rate used for projects allocated in the 2017
green bond is 1.11 USD/EUR, for projects allocated in the 2018 green bond it is 1.19 USD/EUR whereas for projects whose investment value has been upda-
ted – including those with the new Capex identified in GB 2019 – the exchange rate is 1.21.
(2) Additional proceeds were allocated for some renewable projects that were already identified in the 2017 and 2018 green bond, for which new capitalized
costs emerged.
(3) Aggregate data related to 8 small sized Italian projects. The concerned technology is hydroelectric.
Table B – ESG indicators
2022 generation CO avoided 2019-2022 generation 2019-2022 CO
2 2
Country Project name(1) (GWh) 2022 (t) (GWh avoided (t)
USA Whitney Hill 207.54 127,926.68 601.23 365,286.19
USA Aurora Wind 1,184.80 730,314.75 1,914.90 1,159,927.41
USA Cimarron Bend 3 phase I 811.92 500,470.84 1,615.94 973,575.45
AUSTRALIA Cohuna 18.44 16,567.70 29.10 25,786.78
ITALY Various projects(2) - - - -
(1) For projects for which new Capex were allocated in 2019, in addition to what was allocated in the 2017 and 2018 green bond, for the ESG indicators refer to
the 2017 and 2018 tables.
(2) Aggregate data related to 8 small sized Italian projects. The concerned technology is hydroelectric. The share of generation for only repowering cannot be
separated from the rest of the plant because it is not possible to precisely determine the share of energy fed to the network only due to the increase in
power.
Green Bond | 2019 |
Table C – Further ESG indicators
Plant shutdown
Actions to or site stop Injuries
Water protect/restore due to (fatalities Beneficiaries of
consumption biodiversity environmental and “Life Social projects social projects
Country Project name(1) m3(2) (no.) issues (no.) Changing”) (no.) (no.) (no.)
USA Whitney Hill - - - - - -
USA Aurora Wind - - - - - -
USA Cimarron Bend 3 phase I - - - - - -
AUSTRALIA Cohuna - - - - 7 268
ITALY Various projects(3) - - - - 1 500
(1) For projects for which new Capex were allocated in 2019, in addition to what was allocated in the 2017 and 2018 green bond, for the ESG indicators refer to
the 2017 and 2018 tables.
(2) Industrial water consumption related to water extraction data for plant.
(3) Aggregate data related to 8 small sized Italian projects. The concerned technology is hydroelectric.
Table D – Overall information
CRITERION INDICATOR GB 2022 DATA/APPROACH
Five reports were received for presumed violations of the principle of
Number and description of the respect for diversity and non-discrimination. Of the five reports, three ended
reports identified through the as a non-violation and two as a violation with inappropriate behavior by
Enel monitoring system individual employees regarding projects financed with GB proceeds. Suitable
corrective actions were implemented for the two violations.
Respect for human rights
standards and prevention of The risk analysis conducted on a country level in the Group’s areas of
breaches presence highlighted an average risk perceived as “to be monitored”
Results of risk analysis and “high priority”(1). Group human rights practices and policies were
on human rights at subsequently assessed as “robust”(2). However, specific action plans have
country level been developed for each country of presence as well as a centrally managed
improvement plan to harmonize and integrate processes and policies
defined at the global level and applied at the local level.
Number and description of the
reports identified through the No reports regarding projects financed with proceeds from the GB.
Enel monitoring system
The risk analysis conducted on a country level in the in the Group’s areas
Respect for labor rights of presence highlighted an average risk perceived as “to be monitored”(1).
Results of risk analysis Group human rights practices and policies were subsequently assessed
on human rights at as “robust”(2). However, specific action plans have been developed for each
country level country of presence as well as a centrally managed improvement plan to
harmonize and integrate processes and policies defined at the global level
and applied at the local level.
Working conditions Number and description of the
(employment relationships, reports identified through the No reports regarding projects financed with proceeds from the GB.
training, health and safety Enel monitoring system
conditions, respect for working Number of injuries No fatality or “Life Changing” injury was recorded for projects financed with
hours) (fatalities and “Life Changing”) proceeds from the GB.
Through the General Contract Conditions, Enel requires its contractors and
subcontractors, among other things, to comply with the ten principles of the
United Nations Global Compact, respect for and protection of internationally
Integration of environmental
recognized human rights, as well as respect for ethical and social obligations
and social factors into the Ethical clauses in
regarding the fight against child labor and protection of women, equal
supply chain – Responsible contracts with suppliers
treatment, prohibition of discrimination, freedom of association and
purchasing
representation, forced labor, safety and environmental protection, sanitary
conditions and also regulatory conditions, retribution, contributions,
insurance and tax.
Business ethics (prevention Three reports were received related to conflicts of interest/corruption for
Number and description of the
of corruption and money the pursuit of personal interests and/or interests that harm the company. Of
reports identified through the
laundering, fraud, the three reports, two are being analyzed as of the date of the non-financial
Enel monitoring system
anticompetitive practices) disclosure and one ended as a non-violation.
% of area/country processes
The average annual coverage level of the processes through internal audit
Audit and internal control covered by internal audit
activities is equal to 53% for Renewables and 90% for Grids in Italy.
activities
(1) Average perceived risk: average of perceived risk levels identified in the countries being analyzed. Reference scale of risks: 1. High risk; 2. High priority risk;
3. Risk to be monitored; 4. Acceptable risk.
(2) Reference scale of performance values: Robust (75%-100%); Good (50%-75%); Sufficient (25%-50%); Needs improvement (0%-25%).
Sustainability-Linked
Financing Report
Contents:
1. Introduction
2. List of outstanding sustainability-linked bond issued by Enel
3. Enel’s KPI performance
3.1 Performance of KPI #1
3.2 Performance of KPI #2
3.3 Performance of KPI #3
3.4 Performance of KPI #4
3.5 Performance of KPI #5
4. Verification on Enel’s KPI performance
1. Introduction
In line with the Sustainability-Linked Financing Framework tainability-linked guarantees linked to SPTs related to five
published by Enel on its website(1), Enel issues and executes KPIs, which contribute to SDG 7 (Ensure access to afford-
financial instruments and agreements linked to predeter- able, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all) and
mined Sustainability Performance Targets (SPTs). SDG 13 (Take urgent action to combat climate change and
Enel and/or its subsidiaries issue sustainability-linked its impacts), as well as the environmental targets defined
bonds, SDG Commercial Papers and underwrite sustain- by the European Union in the EU Taxonomy Regulation,
ability-linked loans, sustainability-linked foreign exchange with particular attention to the climate mitigation objective.
derivatives, sustainability-linked rates derivatives and sus-
KPIs and Sustainability Performance Targets (SPT) summary
KPI Actual values Sustainability Performance Targets (SPT)
2022 2022 2023 2024 2025 2030 2040
KPI #1
Scope 1 GHG emissions Intensity relating to Power Generation 229 148 140 130 72 0
(gCO /kWh)(2)
2eq
KPI #2
Scope 1 and 3 GHG emissions Intensity relating to Integrated Power 218 135 73 0
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
KPI #3
22.9 20.9 11.4 0
Absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions relating to Gas Retail (MtCO )
2eq
KPI #4
63.1 60% 65% 66% 76% 85% 100%
Renewable Installed Capacity Percentage (%)(3)
KPI #5
81.9% >80%
Proportion of Capex aligned with the EU Taxonomy (%)
Target: Outdated
(1) Enel - Sustainability-Linked Financing Framework – February 2023.
(2) In the previous versions of Enel’s Sustainability-Linked Financing Framework and in the documentation for the financial instruments issued in compliance
with these versions, KPI #1 “Scope 1 GHG emissions Intensity relating to Power Generation (gCO /kWh)” was defined as “Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions
2eq
Amount (Scope 1)”.
(3) Excluded from the calculation are 531.1 MW of acquired capacity, deriving from power plants acquired by the Group, according to what is indicated by the
contractual documentation of the individual instruments.
2. List of outstanding sustainability-linked bond issued by
Enel
Target
Date or achievement
period of as of 2021
ISIN Issuer Issuance date Amount issued Amount outstanding Maturity KPI SPT reference and 2022
US29278GAL23 Enel Finance 10/09/2019 1,500,000,000 $ 1,500,000,000 $ 10/09/2024 Renewable 55% 2021
International Installed Capacity
NV (“EFI”) Percentage (%)
XS2066706818 EFI 17/10/2019 1,000,000,000 € 1,000,000,000 € 17/06/2024 Renewable 55% 2021
Installed Capacity
Percentage (%)
XS2066706909 EFI 17/10/2019 1,000,000,000 € 1,000,000,000 € 17/06/2027 Renewable 55% 2021
Installed Capacity
Percentage (%)
XS2066706735 EFI 17/10/2019 500,000,000 € 500,000,000 € 17/10/2034 Scope 1 GHG 125 gCO / 2030
2eq
emissions kWh
Intensity relating
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
XS2244418609 EFI 20/10/2020 500,000,000 £ 500,000,000 £ 20/10/2027 Renewable 60% 2022
Installed Capacity
Percentage (%)
XS2353182020 EFI 17/06/2021 1,000,000,000 € 1,000,000,000 € 17/06/2027 Scope 1 GHG 148 2023
emissions gCO /
2eq
Intensity relating kWh
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
XS2353182293 EFI 17/06/2021 1,250,000,000 € 1,250,000,000 € 17/06/2030 Scope 1 GHG 148 2023
emissions gCO /
2eq
Intensity relating kWh
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
XS2353182376 EFI 17/06/2021 1,000,000,000 € 1,000,000,000 € 17/06/2036 Scope 1 GHG 82 gCO / 2030
2eq
emissions kWh
Intensity relating
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
US29278GAM06 EFI 12/07/2021 1,250,000,000 $ 1,250,000,000 $ 12/07/2026 Scope 1 GHG 148 2023
emissions gCO /
2eq
Intensity relating kWh
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
US29278GAN88 EFI 12/07/2021 1,000,000,000 $ 1,000,000,000 $ 12/07/2028 Scope 1 GHG 148 2023
emissions gCO /
2eq
Intensity relating kWh
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
US29278GAP37 EFI 12/07/2021 1,000,000,000 $ 1,000,000,000 $ 12/07/2031 Scope 1 GHG 148 2023
emissions gCO /
2eq
Intensity relating kWh
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
US29280HAB87 Enel Finance 12/07/2021 750,000,000 $ 750,000,000 $ 12/07/2041 Scope 1 GHG 82 gCO / 2030
2eq
America, emissions kWh
LLC (“EFA”) Intensity relating
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
Target
Date or achievement
period of as of 2021
ISIN Issuer Issuance date Amount issued Amount outstanding Maturity KPI SPT reference and 2022
XS2390400633 EFI 28/09/2021 1,250,000,000 € 1,250,000,000 € 28/05/2026 Scope 1 GHG 148 2023
emissions gCO /
2eq
Intensity relating kWh
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
XS2390400716 EFI 28/09/2021 1,000,000,000 € 1,000,000,000 € 28/05/2029 Scope 1 GHG 148 2023
emissions gCO /
2eq
Intensity relating kWh
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
XS2390400807 EFI 28/09/2021 1,250,000,000 € 1,250,000,000 € 28/09/2034 Scope 1 GHG 82 gCO / 2030
2eq
emissions kWh
Intensity relating
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
XS2432293673 EFI 17/01/2022 1,250,000,000 € 1,250,000,000 € 17/11/2025 Scope 1 GHG 148 2023
emissions gCO /
2eq
Intensity relating kWh
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
XS2432293756 EFI 17/01/2022 750,000,000 € 750,000,000 € 17/01/2031 Scope 1 GHG 140 2024
emissions gCO /
2eq
Intensity relating kWh
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
XS2432293913 EFI 17/01/2022 750,000,000 € 750,000,000 € 17/01/2035 Scope 1 GHG 82 gCO / 2030
2eq
emissions kWh
Intensity relating
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
XS2466363202 EFI 11/04/2022 750,000,000 £ 750,000,000 £ 11/04/2029 Scope 1 GHG 140 2024
emissions gCO /
2eq
Intensity relating kWh
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
USN30707AN87 EFI 15/06/2022 750,000,000 $ 750,000,000 $ 15/06/2025 Scope 1 GHG 148 2023
emissions gCO /
2eq
Intensity relating kWh
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
US29278GAW87 EFI 15/06/2022 750,000,000 $ 750,000,000 $ 15/06/2027 Scope 1 GHG 140 2024
emissions gCO /
2eq
Intensity relating kWh
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
US29278GAX60 EFI 15/06/2022 1,000,000,000 $ 1,000,000,000 $ 15/06/2032 Scope 1 GHG 82 gCO / 2030
2eq
emissions kWh
Intensity relating
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
US29278GAY44 EFI 15/06/2022 1,000,000,000 $ 1,000,000,000 $ 15/06/2052 Scope 1 GHG 0 gCO / 2040
2eq
emissions kWh
Intensity relating
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
Target
Date or achievement
period of as of 2021
ISIN Issuer Issuance date Amount issued Amount outstanding Maturity KPI SPT reference and 2022
XS2531420656 EFI 09/09/2022 1,000,000,000 € 1,000,000,000 € 09/03/2029 Scope 1 GHG 140 2024
emissions gCO /
2eq
Intensity relating kWh
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
US29278GAZ19 EFI 14/10/2022 750,000,000 $ 750,000,000 $ 14/10/2025 Scope 1 GHG 148 2023
emissions gCO /
2eq
Intensity relating kWh
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
US29280HAA05 EFA 14/10/2022 1,000,000,000 $ 1,000,000,000 $ 14/10/2027 Scope 1 GHG 140 2024
emissions gCO /
2eq
Intensity relating kWh
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
US29278GBA58 EFI 14/10/2022 1,250,000,000 $ 1,250,000,000 $ 14/10/2032 Scope 1 GHG 82 gCO / 2030
2eq
emissions kWh
Intensity relating
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
US29278GBB32 EFI 14/10/2022 1,000,000,000 $ 1,000,000,000 $ 14/10/2052 Scope 1 GHG 0 gCO / 2040
2eq
emissions kWh
Intensity relating
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
XS2589260723 EFI 20/02/2023 750,000,000 € 750,000,000 € 20/02/2031 Scope 1 GHG 130 2025
emissions gCO /
2eq
Intensity relating kWh
to Power
Generation
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
Proportion of >80% 2023-
Capex aligned 2025
with the EU
Taxonomy (%)
XS2589260996 EFI 20/02/2023 750,000,000 € 750,000,000 € 20/02/2043 Scope 1 and 3 0 gCO / 2040
2eq
GHG emissions kWh
Intensity relating
to Integrated
Power
(gCO /kWh)
2eq
Absolute Scope 0 MtCO 2040
2eq
3 GHG emissions
relating to Gas
Retail (MtCO )
2eq
Total 28,055,744,969 € (4) 28,055,744,969 € (5)
eq eq
(4) Calculated with the following exchange rates: EUR/USD FX and EUR/GBP FX at December 30, 2022.
(5) Calculated with the following exchange rates: EUR/USD FX and EUR/GBP FX at December 30, 2022.
3. Enel’s KPI performance
a.KPI #1: Scope 1 GHG emissions Intensity relating to Power Generation (gCO /kWh)
2eq
KPI #1: Scope 1 GHG emissions Intensity relating to Power Generation (gCO /kWh)(6)
2eq
Group Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) intensity (gCO /kWh)
2eq
•
Definition/Methodology: Group Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions (including CO , CH and NO) deriving from the
2 4 2
generation of energy and measured in grams of CO per kWh, as defined and detailed in the documentation for
2eq
sustainability-linked transactions and in line with the GHG Protocol(7).
•
Rationale: the KPI measures Enel’s performance with respect to the decarbonization strategy of its energy generation
mix, which will be fully reached by 2040, while mitigating at the same time the direct emissions from its most relevant
Scope 1 source, which represents more than 99% of total Scope 1 emissions.
•
Materiality: in 2022, KPI #1 Scope 1 GHG emissions Intensity relating to Power Generation represents 39.2% of Enel’s
total carbon footprint and is equivalent to 52.1 MtCO .
2eq
•
Intermediate and long-term goals: since 2015 Enel has defined a series of goals for reducing the direct greenhouse
gas emissions deriving from its energy generation activities, increasing the level of ambition in every update made to
align it with the most ambitious climatic scenario available.
Also in 2015, Enel defined its first science-based target aligned with the scenario “well below 2 degrees”, targeted to-
ward reducing the carbon intensity by 25% as compared to 2007 (reaching 350 gCO /kWh).
2eq
In 2019, Enel, having reached the 2020 goal a year in advance, announced a new science-based objective for 2030
aligned with the “well below 2 degrees” scenario, increasing the percentage of emissions reduction from 70% to 80%
as compared to 2017 (from 125 gCO /kWh to 82 gCO /kWh), how aligned with the 1.5 °C scenario.
2eq 2eq
In 2021, Enel announced to have brought forward the achievement of the objective of complete decarbonization by
10 years, from 2050 to 2040. This goal was certified by SBTi in 2022 together with the update to the 2030 goal, which
decreased from 82 gCO /kWh to 72 gCO /kWh, which also increased the level of ambition in this case.
2eq 2eq
Since 2020, Enel has also defined annual short-term goals to make its pathway toward full decarbonization more visi-
ble. These goals were set in different updates of the Strategic Plan and have the following thresholds: 148 gCO /kWh
2eq
at 2023, 140 gCO /kWh at 2024 and 130 gCO /kWh at 2025.
2eq 2eq
•
Contribution to the EU environmental goal: Climate Change Mitigation.
•
Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals: SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and
its impacts.
Enel’s KPI #1 and relative SPT performance
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2030 2040
(actual) (actual) (actual) (target) (target) (target) (target) (target)
KPI #1 Performance 214 225 229 148 140 130 72 0
Gap vs 2023 66 77 81
Gap vs 2024 74 85 89 8
Gap vs 2025 84 95 99 18 10
Gap vs 2030 132 143 147 76 68 58
Gap vs 2040 214 225 229 148 140 130 72
(6) In the previous versions of Enel’s Sustainability-Linked Financing Framework and in the documentation for the financial instruments issued in compliance
with these versions, KPI #1 “Scope 1 GHG emissions Intensity relating to Power Generation (gCO /kWh)” was defined as “Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions
2eq
Amount (Scope 1)”.
(7) The GHG Protocol provides the greenhouse gas accounting standards (https://ghgprotocol.org/).
b. KPI #2: Scope 1 and 3 GHG emissions Intensity relating to Integrated Power (gCO /kWh)
2eq
KPI #2: Scope 1 and 3 GHG emissions Intensity relating to Integrated Power (gCO /kWh)
2eq
Group’s combined greenhouse gas emissions, Scope 1 (including CO , CH and NO) deriving from power generation
2 4 2
and Scope 3 deriving from the generation of electricity purchased and sold to end customers, measured in grams of
CO per kWh.
2eq
•
Definition/Methodology: Intensity metric calculated as the combination of Group Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions
(including CO , CH and NO) (measured in gCO ) and Group Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions from the generation
2 4 2 2eq
of purchased electricity that is sold to end customers (measured in gCO ) (which represents an element of subcate-
2eq
gory “3-Fuels and activities connected to power” of the “GHG Protocol-Scope 3 standard”), divided into power gener-
ation (measured in kWh) and purchased electricity (measured in kWh). The methodology is defined and detailed in the
documentation for pertinent sustainability-linked transactions and in line with the GHG Protocol.
•
Rationale: KPI #2 covers all electricity sold by Enel to its end customers, obtained both from Enel’s own generation and
from electricity purchased from third parties.
•
Materiality: in 2022, KPI #2 Scope 1 and 3 GHG emissions Intensity relating to Integrated Power represented 60.6%
of Enel’s total carbon footprint, equivalent to 80.6 MtCO , of which Group Scope 1 CO emissions from power
2eq 2eq
generation represented 39.2%, equivalent to 52.1 MtCO , and Group Scope 3 CO emissions from the generation of
2eq 2
electricity purchased and sold to end customers represented 21.4%, equivalent to 28.5 MtCO .
2eq
•
Intermediate and long-term goals: in November 2022 Enel announced its goal of reducing the emissions of the above
KPI to 135 gCO /kWh by 2025. In December 2022, SBTi validated the following 2030 and 2040 goals as in line with
2eq
the “1.5 °C climate goal” scenario: reduce 100% of direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) deriving from the pro-
duction of electricity and of indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) deriving from fuels and activities connected
to power, covering all electricity sold per kWh by 2040 as compared to 2017 (332 gCO /kWh), with a medium-term
2eq
goal of a 78% reduction by 2030 (73 gCO /kWh).
2eq
•
Contribution to the EU environmental goal: Climate Change Mitigation.
•
Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals: SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and
its impacts.
Enel’s KPI #2 and relative SPT performance
2020 2021 2022 2025 2030 2040
(actual) (actual) (actual) (target) (target) (target)
KPI #2 Performance 194 203 218 135 73 0
Gap vs 2025 59 68 83
Gap vs 2030 121 130 145 62
Gap vs 2040 194 203 218 135 73
c.KPI #3: Absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions relating to Gas Retail (MtCO )
2eq
KPI #3: Absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions relating to Gas Retail (MtCO )
2eq
Group absolute greenhouse emissions (GHG – Scope 3) deriving from the use of gas sold by the Enel Group to its end
customers (measured in MtCO ).
2eq
•
Definition/Methodology: Group Absolute Scope 3 CO equivalent emissions from use of sold gas by the Group to its
2
end customers, as defined and detailed in the documentation of the relevant Sustainability-Linked transactions and in
line with the GHG Protocol.
•
Rationale: KPI #3 supports Enel’s goal of full decarbonization, including the value chain of the Gas Retail business.
•
Materiality: in 2022, KPI #3 Absolute GHG Scope 3 emissions related to Gas Retail represented 17.2% of Enel’s total
carbon footprint, equivalent to 22.9 MtCO .
2eq
•
Intermediate and long-term goals: in November 2022 Enel announced its goal of reducing the emissions of KPI #3
Absolute GHG Scope 3 emissions related to Gas Retail, reaching 20.9 MtCO by 2025 and 11.4 MtCO by 2030. In De-
2 2
cember 2022 SBTi validated the following 2030 and 2040 goals, in line with the “1.5 °C climate goal” scenario: 100%
reduction of emissions by 2040 and 55% by 2030, with respect to the 2017 value (25.3 MtCO ).
2eq
•
Contribution to the EU environmental goal: Climate Change Mitigation.
•
Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals: SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and
its impacts.
Enel’s KPI #3 and relative SPT performance
2020 2021 2022 2025 2030 2040
(actual) (actual) (actual) (target) (target) (target)
KPI #3 Performance 21.9 22.3 22.9 20.9 11.4 0
Gap vs 2025 1.0 1.4 2.9
Gap vs 2030 10.5 10.9 11.5 9.5
Gap vs 2040 21.9 22.3 22.9 20.9 11.4
d. KPI #4: Renewable Installed Capacity Percentage (%)
KPI #4: Renewable Installed Capacity Percentage (%)
Percentage of renewable energy installed capacity with respect to total installed capacity (expressed as a percentage).
•
Definition/Methodology:
Calculation method
Renewable energy installed capacity (a) MW
Total installed capacity (b) MW
Renewable installed capacity percentage (a) / (b) %
Terms referring to KPI #4 and SPT #4 are detailed in the documentation of the relevant sustainability-linked opera-
tions.
•
Rationale: KPI #4 supports Enel’s target of complete decarbonization of its technological mix by 2040.
•
Materiality: KPI #4 provides a global representation of the decarbonization process of the Group’s technological mix,
towards the complete adoption of renewable energy by 2040.
•
Intermediate and long-term goals: in November 2022, Enel reinforced its objective to reach 76% of total net efficient
installed capacity from renewable sources by the end of 2025. The Group plans on adding approximately +21 GW to
its installed capacity during 2023-2025, in line with reaching the decarbonization objectives aligned with the Paris
Agreement. It is expected that in 2025 consolidated renewable capacity will amount to ~61 GW, equal to 76% of the
Group’s total consolidated generation, with consolidated renewable generation that should reach 70%. By 2030, the
percentage of the Group’s consolidated renewable capacity will be equal to 85% and 100% by 2040.
•
Contribution to the EU environmental goal: Climate Change Mitigation.
•
Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals: SDG 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and
modern energy for all.
Enel’s KPI #4 and relative SPT performance
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2030 2040
(actual) (actual) (actual) (target) (target) (target) (target) (target)
KPI #4 Performance 53.6% 57.5% 63.1% 65.0% 66.0% 76.0% 85.0% 100.0%
Gap vs 2021 3.9%
Gap vs 2022 9.5% 5.6%
Gap vs 2023 11.4% 7.5% 1.9%
Gap vs 2024 12.4% 8.5% 2.9% 1.0%
Gap vs 2025 22.4% 18.5% 12.9% 11.0% 10.0%
Gap vs 2030 31.4% 27.5% 21.9% 20.0% 19.0% 9.0%
Gap vs 2040 46.4% 42.5% 36.9% 35.0% 34.0% 24.0% 15.0%
e.KPI #5: Proportion of Capex aligned with the EU Taxonomy (%)
KPI #5: Proportion of Capex aligned with the EU Taxonomy (%)
Proportion of the Capital Expenditure (from now Capex), during a certain period, in activities that are qualified as sustain-
able from an environmental point of view based on the criteria specified in article 3 of the regulation on EU Taxonomy
(2020/852) (expressed as a percentage).
•
Definition/Methodology:
Calculation method
Capex aligned with the EU Taxonomy (a) EURbn
Total Capex according to the requirements
of article 8 of the regulation on EU Taxonomy (2020/852) (b) EURbn
Proportion of Capex aligned with the EU Taxonomy (a) / (b) %
Terms referring to KPI #5 and TSS #5 are detailed in the documentation of the relevant sustainability-linked operations
and in the consolidated non-financial reports/annual report.
•
Rationale: KPI #5 supports Enel’s target of complete decarbonization of its technological mix by 2040.
•
Materiality: the passage to zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2040 will require Enel to make huge investments over
the next two decades. The share of Enel investments in capital expenses aligned with EU Taxonomy shows to what
extent Enel is investing in a carbon-free business model.
•
Intermediate and long-term goals: in November 2022 Enel announced its goal of aligning at least 80% of its invest-
ments in capital expenses during 2023-2025 with EU Taxonomy.
•
Contribution to the EU environmental goal: all six of the environmental goals defined in the regulation on EU Taxono-
my, with particular attention to the Climate Change Mitigation.
•
Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals: SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and
its impacts.
Enel’s KPI #5 and relative SPT performance
2020 2021 2022 2023-2025
(actual) (actual) (actual) (target)
KPI #5 Performance - 82.0% 81.9% >80%
4. Verification on Enel’s KPI performance
I. KPI #1 performance
At December 31, 2022, the amount of KPI #1 emissions Enel, of KPI #1 Scope 1 GHG emissions Intensity relating to
Scope 1 GHG emissions Intensity relating to Power Gener- Power Generation (gCO /kWh) is available at pages 558-
2eq
ation (gCO /kWh) is equal to [229] gCO /kWh. 562 of the present Report.
2eq 2eq
The Assurance Report of [KPMG], as the external verifier of
II. KPI #2 performance
At December 31, 2022, the amount of KPI #2 emissions The Assurance Report of [KPMG], as the external verifier
Scope 1 and 3 GHG emissions Intensity relating to Inte- of Enel, of KPI #2 Scope 1 and 3 GHG emissions Intensity
grated Power (gCO /kWh) is equal to [218] gCO /kWh. relating to Integrated Power (gCO /kWh) is available at
2eq 2eq 2eq
pages 558-562 of the present Report.
III. KPI #3 performance
At 31 December, 2022, the amount of KPI #3 emissions Enel, of KPI #3 Absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions relating
Absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions relating to Gas Retail to Gas Retail (MtCO ) is available at pages 558-562 of the
2eq
(MtCO ) is equal to [22.9] MtCO . present Report.
2eq 2eq
The Assurance Report of [KPMG], as the external verifier of
IV. KPI #4 performance
The percentage value of KPI #4 Renewable Installed Capacity
Percentage (%) at December 31, 2022, is equal to 63.1%(8).
Calculation method
Renewable energy installed capacity (a) 53.030 MW
Total installed capacity (b) 84.047 MW
Renewable installed capacity percentage (a) / (b) 63.1%
As a consequence of the calculation above, Enel has sat- The Assurance Report of KPMG, as Enel’s external veri-
isfied the Sustainability Performance Targets (SPTs) in the fier, of KPI #4 Renewable Installed Capacity Percentage
context of all instruments linked to a renewable installed (%) is available at the following link: https://www.enel.com/
capacity percentage equal to or greater than 60% as of investors/investing/sustainable-finance/sustainabili-
December 31, 2022. ty-linked-finance.
(8) For more details, please see Enel Statement on the Renewable Installed Capacity Percentage published on Enel’s website and available at the following link:
https://www.enel.com/investors/investing/sustainable-finance/sustainability-linked-finance.
V.KPI #5 performance
The percentage value of KPI #5 Proportion of Capex
aligned to the EU Taxonomy (%) at December 31, 2022 is
equal to [81.9]%.
Calculation method
Capex aligned with the EU Taxonomy (a)[12,351.0] mil euros
Total Capex according to the requirements of article 8
of the regulation on EU Taxonomy (2020/852) (b)[15,088.0] mil euros
Proportion of Capex aligned with the EU Taxonomy (a)/ (b) [81.9] %
The Assurance Report of KPMG, as Enel’s external verifier,
of KPI #5 Proportion of Capex aligned to the EU Taxonomy
is available at the following link: https://www.enel.com/it/
investitori/sostenibilita.
Concept design and realization
Gpt Group
Copy editing
postScriptum di Paola Urbani
Publication not for sale
Edited by
Enel Communications
Enel
Società per azioni
Registered Office 00198 Rome - Italy
Viale Regina Margherita, 137
Stock Capital Euro 10,166,679,946 fully paid-in
Companies Register of Rome and Tax I.D. 00811720580
R.E.A. of Rome 756032 VAT Code 15844561009
© Enel SpA
00198 Rome, Viale Regina Margherita, 137
enel.com