CORPORATE
SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY
REPORT
Powered By Our Diversity, We Lead The Way The World Moves
2022
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
REFERENCE FOR READING THE CSR REPORT 3
MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN & THE CEO 5
1 BUSINESS MODEL AND GOVERNANCE: CREATING SHARED
AND LASTING VALUE - INTEGRATED REPORT 9
2 BRINGING A TANGIBLE IMPACT ON CLIMATE CHANGE - CLIMATE REPORT 57
3 DRIVING THE COMPANY TRANSFORMATION THROUGH THE DEVELOPMENT
OF HUMAN CAPITAL 135
4 MEETING CHANGING CUSTOMER EXPECTATIONS ON MOBILITY 227
5 PREVENTING ETHICS VIOLATIONS BY PROMOTING OUR ETHICAL CULTURE 283
6 PROMOTING PROTECTION AND IMPLEMENTING RESPONSIBLE USE
OF NATURAL RESOURCES 326
7 ENSURING PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS AND SUPPORTING A BALANCED
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OF TERRITORIES 407
8 APPENDIX 462
TROPER
RSC
EHT
GNIDAER
ROF
ECNEREFER
REFERENCE FOR READING THE CSR REPORT Additional information in this area
The Report contains 8 chapters, 6 of which are dedicated to the 6 CSR macro risk (pillars), each one with an associated color Link icon legend
■ Chapter 1 is the Integrated Report dedicated to Stellantis CSR business overview External documents
■ Chapters 2 through 7 present the 22 Stellantis CSR issues (challenges) according to the following sections: Internal section reference
Press release
1. Context and Stellantis position 5. Policies to execute the strategy
Video
2. Forward-looking vision and targets 6. Organization and resources
3. Identification and management of 7. Main initiatives, achievements Website
risks and opportunities and results
4. Governance and decision bodies to 8. Detailed key performance
lead actions indicators Related Sustainability indexes
Chapter 2 is the Climate Report and presents common sections 1. to 4. GRI 203 SASB-440b.1 TCFD.Ra
for its three CSR issues. Sections 5. to 8. are presented for each CSR issue.
Chapter 6 presents common sections 4. to 6. for industrial waste (6.4),
pollution (6.5), water (6.6) and biodiversity (6.7). The remaining sections
CSR macro risk symbol and issue
are presented for each CSR issue.
number/title from materiality matrix
■ Chapter 8 covers the methodology and auditor’s report
1 Vehicle CO emissions
2
Related SDGs
Each Forward-looking vision and targets section includes
a committment scoreboard composed of:
■ Vision/ambition
■ Strategic KPIs
■ Commitment
■ 2022 and 2021 results Text and data highlights
Stellantis is committed to bring a
tangible impact on climate change
Throughout the Report there are boxes that indicate focus areas:
STELLANTIS
COMPANY TRANSFORMATION IMPACT MEASURMENT Estimate reduction of CO 2-eq
THROUGH THE SOFTWARE OF THE ELECTRIFICATION
PROJECT 53,527
STRATEGY STRATEGY tons
TNETNOC
RETPAHC
EHT
FO
WEIVREVO
OVERVIEW OF THE CHAPTERS CONTENT
Chapter 1 Business model and governance: Chapter 2 Bringing a tangible impact on Chapter 3 Driving the Company
creating shared and lasting value is the climate change (macro risk I) is the Climate transformation through the development of
Integrated Report of the Company, which Report that includes all targets and initiatives to human capital (macro risk II) is the description of
presents business model, CSR policy, materiality ensure carbon net zero 2038 target HR policies and activities
matrix, how the Company shares value created
1 Vehicle CO emissions 4 Management of Company transformation and
with its stakeholders 2
social dialogue
2 Industrial and sites carbon footprint
5 Attracting and developing all talent
3 Carbon footprint of the supply chain: purchasing
and logistics 6 Diversity and equal opportunity
Chapter 4 Meeting changing customer
7 Wellbeing, health and safety in the workplace
expectations on mobility (macro risk III) describes
customers expectation in terms of customers
experience, safety and new mobility solutions Chapter 5 Preventing ethics violations by
promoting our ethical culture (macro risk IV) Chapter 6 Promoting protection and
8 Development of new mobility solutions (including
autonomous vehicles) details integrity and ethic in Stellantis' business implementing responsible use of natural
9 Vehicle and service quality - customer satisfaction practices resources (macro risk V) outlines how the
Company is managing responsibly materials and 10 Vehicle safety 11 Ethics in governance and business practices
production of mobility devices
12 Responsible management of personal information
Wise use of materials in the vehicle life cycle
14
(including product recycling)
13 Responsible information to customers
Chapter 7 Ensuring protection of human 15 Vehicle impact on air quality
rights and supporting a balanced economic Optimization of material cycles in manufacturing
16
development of territories (macro risk VI) processes (including waste)
explains how how the Company manages its 17 Control of industrial discharge and nuisances
supply chain and how it brings attention to local Chapter 8 Appendix consists in a technical
18 Sustainable water management in manufacturing
communities appendix including the notably scope of
reporting, sustainability references and the 19 Protection of biodiversity
20 Responsible purchasing practices to support the
auditor’s report
Company’s development in host territories
21 Human rights in the supply chain
22 Philanthropic actions to support communities
OEC
&
NAMRIAHC
MORF
EGASSEM
MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN & THE CEO
GRI 2-22
MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN
2022 was the second year of Stellantis. In this period of time marked by various market and geopolitical challenges,
Stellantis proved to be strong, vibrant and even more determined to "dare forward" as we seized opportunities to achieve
the 2030 strategic plan.
We accelerated our transformation into a sustainable mobility tech company, guided by the ambition to rethink the way
we move while reducing our carbon footprint. We have the ingenuity, drive, and focus to keep Stellantis at the forefront
of the future of mobility.
We do it not only by building iconic vehicles and creating innovative services. We are also shaping a diverse and inclusive
organization, one that gathers people and ideas across borders and cultures to exceed our customers’ different needs and
foster their freedom.
As part of the wider society, Stellantis pursues its stringent environmental, social and governance policy, acting as a
steward for the communities where it operates.
The first Stellantis Student Awards is a primary example of it. Started 26 years ago, this year’s program recognized more
than 600 students from 20 countries around the world with monetary awards for their dedication to continuous learning
and education. We are proud to support those who are committed to building a sustainable, better future: for the world
and for themselves.
The Stellantis Foundation, our philanthropic arm aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, aims
to support projects identified at both local and global levels to impact our communities. Stellantis is driven by our social
commitment, to empower people through access to education and mobility.
Thanks to our shareholders, who facilitate our steady development, Stellantis will continue to lead the way the world
moves and help make the planet more sustainable for future generations.
February 24, 2023
/s/
John Elkann
Chairman
OEC
&
NAMRIAHC
MORF
EGASSEM
MESSAGE FROM THE CEO
This was a year where disruptions seemed relentless with cumulative crises. War, weaker economic conditions, and an
intensifying climate crisis caused exceptional uncertainty, requiring businesses to deliver results while becoming more
and more resilient and agile. Even in this context, Stellantis continued its transformation to a sustainable mobility tech
company at a pace not yet seen in our industry.
Stellantis pursued this balancing act by launching our Dare Forward 2030 long-term strategic plan in March 2022.
The bold business plan aims to achieve greater efficiency with a breakeven point among the lowest in the industry,
enabling us to respond to turbulence while bolstering our position on the global tech scene.
The plan is anchored in an ambitious decarbonization strategy consistent with science-based recommendations.
Through aggressive and clear targets, it sets out deep emission cuts to slash CO in half by 20301, benchmarking our 2021
2
metrics, and putting us on track to achieve carbon net zero by 20382.
Our electrification offer continued at lightning speed. We unveiled our latest battery electric vehicles, including the all-new Jeep®
Avenger, the first-ever fully electric Jeep SUV and the European Car of the Year for 2023. We do not focus solely on battery
power, though.
Our growth also relies on a hydrogen fuel cell zero emission solution. This technology is particularly suited to the needs
of light commercial vehicle customers and is already available for Peugeot, Citroën, and Opel mid-size vans. To further
reinforce our role as a front runner in this field, we recently announced our plans to acquire a substantial stake in Symbio, a
global leader in zero-emission hydrogen mobility.
As we work to achieve a decarbonized world, we continued strengthening our global electrification ecosystem with
leading partners that share with us the same environmental objectives, including Automotive Cells Company, LG Energy
Solution, Samsung SDI, and Factorial, to name a few. At the end of 2022, we also deepened our strategic partnership with
Archer and are now joining forces to manufacture the flagship electric vertical take-off and landing (“eVTOL”) aircraft,
Midnight.
We also put a greater focus on a rigorous, 360-degree circular economy business aimed at bringing additional financial
value to the Company and providing a more sustainable path for the scarce resources of our planet.
And building on our software know-how, we demonstrated how human-focused innovation is enabling us to embrace
the future and render the status quo obsolete. Our software team is building a promising business with several decisive
partnerships signed with world-class tech companies: Amazon, Foxconn and Qualcomm.
1 Scopes 1-2-3 intensity tons of CO2-eq/veh
2 With single-digit percent compensation
OEC
&
NAMRIAHC
MORF
EGASSEM
Stellantis also shifted its lobbying approach toward a more direct and transparent interaction with citizens and stakeholders
supporting the Freedom of Mobility Forum. Planned for early 2023, the forum will be a meeting of passionate problem
solvers committed to fact-based discussion addressing how we can bring sustainable mobility in the face of global
warming implications.
We combined all these activities with financial sustainability, recording a 13.0 percent margin in the face of stiff competition.
We delivered Net revenues of €179.6 billion, which is up 18 percent. We registered Adjusted operating income of
€23.3 billion, up 29 percent, and Net profit from continuing operations of €16.8 billion, up 26 percent.
It was a stellar performance made possible by the huge commitment of our people and the crucial support of our
shareholders.
These elements give me the confidence that what you have seen from Stellantis in our first two years is just a glimpse of
the major impact we will have on mobility ecosystems in the future.
Powered by our diversity, we will continue to lead the way the world moves, delivering cutting-edge products and services
that provide clean, safe and affordable mobility solutions on the roads, and in the air.
This is the mission that guides us daily and our commitment to the society in which we operate.
February 24, 2023
/s/
Carlos Tavares
Chief Executive Officer
OEC
&
NAMRIAHC
MORF
EGASSEM
Contributions to SDGs Table
6 CSR MACRO-RISKS / 22 CSR ISSUES /
PILLARS CHALLENGES
Bringing a tangible 1 Vehicle CO 2 emissions
impact on climate
2 Industrial and sites carbon footprint
change
3 Carbon footprint of the supply chain: purchasing
and logistics
Driving Company 4 Management of Company transformation
and social dialogue
transformation
through the 5 Attracting and developing all talent
development of
human capital 6 Diversity and equal opportunity
7 Health, safety and well-being in the workplace
Meeting changing 8 Development of new mobility solutions
customer (including autonomous vehicles)
expectations 9 Vehicle and service quality - customer satisfaction
on mobility
10 Vehicle safety
Preventing ethics 11 Ethics in governance and business practices
violatio 12 Responsible management of personal information
13 Responsible information to customers
Promoting 14 Wise use of materials in the vehicle life cycle
protection and (including product recycling)
implementing 15 Vehicle impact on air quality
responsible use of
natural resources 16 Optimization of material cycles in manufacturing
processes (including waste)
17 Control of industrial discharge and nuisances
18 Sustainable water management in manufacturing
19 Protection of biodiversity
Ensuring protection 20 Responsible purchasing practices to support the
Company’s development in host territories
of human rights
and supporting a 21 Human rights in the supply chain
balanced economic
development of 22 Philanthropic actions to support communities
territories
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
1 BUSINESS MODEL AND GOVERNANCE: CREATING
SHARED AND LASTING VALUE - INTEGRATED REPORT
1.1 VALUE CREATION MODEL 10
1.1.1 Business Model 10
1.1.2 Key Figures 15
1.1.3 Stakeholder dialogue for a better mutual understanding with society 17
1.1.4 Shared value for stakeholders 20
1.2 MATERIAL CSR RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES INHERENT TO THE VALUE CREATION MODEL 42
1.2.1 CSR macro-risks and related CSR issues: Stellantis CSR pillars and challenges 42
1.2.2 Stellantis materiality matrix: relative position of the 22 CSR challenges 42
1.2.3 Extensive assessment of risks 46
1.2.4 CSR trajectory 48
1.3 CSR GOVERNANCE 53
1.3.1 CSR policy 53
1.3.2 CSR in the Board of Directors 54
1.3.3 CSR embedded into business: at the Executive and Operational levels 55
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
1.1 Value creation model
1.1.1 BUSINESS MODEL
A Mobility Tech Company
Born from the bold and visionary spirit of its founding companies, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles and Groupe PSA, Stellantis N.V.
was created to shape the future of mobility with innovative and sustainable solutions. Stellantis is guided by a clear mission: GRI 2-1 GRI 2-6 GRI 203-2
to provide freedom of movement for all through distinctive, appealing, affordable and sustainable mobility solutions.
In March 2022 Stellantis presented its plan Dare Forward 2030. As declared by Stellantis CEO “This plan focuses on how
Stellantis will thrive through the decade (...) and paves the way for our ambition to be second to none in value creation for
ALL stakeholders”. Dare Forward 2030 is built upon three fundamental pillars that will lead the Company to achieve its Dare Forward 2030
financial ambition of doubling Net Revenues to €300 billion by 2030 (as compared to 2021), while sustaining double-digit https://www.stellantis.com/en/company/
dare-forward-2030/value
AOI margins throughout the decade.
CARE: Stellantis has the ambition to achieve carbon net zero by 2038 with an intermediate target of cutting carbon
emissions in half by 20301, compared to 2021 levels.
TECH: Stellantis’ electrification push accelerated with a 41% increase in global battery electric vehicle (BEV) sales year-
over-year, to 288,000 vehicles in 2022. With 23 BEVs now in market, the BEV portfolio will more than double to 47 by the
end of 2024, supporting the target to have more than 75 BEVs globally and global BEV sales of 5 million by 2030.
VALUE: Stellantis prioritized its seven accretive businesses to complement its core business and achieved year-over-year2
growth: circular economy, data business, mobility, financial services, pres-owned cars, aftermarket, commercial vehicles
The Stellantis CSR strategy is fully integrated in the Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan and contributes to the achievements
of its objectives.
Stellantis is listed on Milan's Borsa Italiana, on Euronext Paris and on the New York Stock Exchange. Our principal activity
is the design, development, manufacture and sale of automobiles bearing the Abarth, Alfa Romeo, Chrysler, Citroën,
Dodge, DS Automobiles, Fiat, Jeep, Lancia, Maserati, Opel, Peugeot, Ram and Vauxhall brands. Stellantis also develops and
offers customers new mobility services with Free2move and Leasys.
1 Including Scopes 1 and 2 (-75% in absolute emissions tCOeq) and Scope 3 (-50% in intensity emissions tCOeq/vh)
2 2
2 Completed merger of Peugeot S.A. (“PSA”) with and into Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V. (“FCA”) on January 16, 2021 (“Merger”). On January 17, 2021,
combined company was renamed Stellantis N.V. (“Stellantis” or “Company”). PSA was determined to be the acquirer for accounting purposes, therefore, the
historical financial statements of Stellantis represent the continuing operations of PSA, which also reflect the loss of control and the classification of Faurecia
S.E. (“Faurecia”) as a discontinued operation as of January 1, 2021 with the restatement of comparative periods. Acquisition date of business combination
was January 17, 2021, therefore, results of FCA for the period January 1 - 16, 2021 are excluded from full year 2021 results unless otherwise stated. 2021 Pro
Forma results are presented as if the Merger had occurred on January 1, 2020 and include results of FCA for the period January 1 – 16, 2021.
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
We offer vehicle choices from luxury, premium and mainstream passenger vehicles to pickup trucks, SUVs and light
commercial vehicles, as well as dedicated mobility, financial, parts and service brands.
In this new era of mobility, our portfolio of brands is uniquely positioned to offer distinctive and sustainable solutions to meet
the evolving needs of customers, as they embrace electrification, connectivity, autonomous driving and shared ownership.
Stellantis is comprised of
■ two hundred-year-old groups, establishing a leading automotive mobility provider as a main activity in a context of
deep industrial transformation
■ the 1st European distribution group, Stellantis & You, with more than 200 retail sites, 450 stores & 35 spare parts hubs
present in 12 countries. 5 activities: New cars sales, Pre-Owned cars sales, After-sales services, Spare-parts sales and rent
■ pre-owned cars ecosystem: the Spoticar label, the companies and start-up Aramis Group and Stimcar for the car
reconditioning and Autobiz for trade-in and valuation solutions
■ aftermarket labels, brands and e-commerce sites including circular economy activity, dedicated to spare parts and
services are completing the scope.
A STRONG AND DIVERSE PORTFOLIO OF ICONIC BRANDS
Well-established automotive, mobility and parts and services brands with strong roots
1896 1899 1903 1906 1910 1914 1919 1925 1941 1949 2001 2007 2009 2014 2016
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
In 2022, Stellantis has paved its way to a more integrated approach to support its electrification roadmap: partnerships
were announced with raw material (Vulcan Energy, Controlled Thermal Resources, Alliance Nickel Ltd, Element 25,
Terrafame) and energy suppliers (Symbio Energy Partners). EV offensive supported by five gigafactories in Europe and
North America, are being developped with partners for vertical integration of key components like electric motors and
transmissions and strategic raw materials deals to guarantee our sourcing needs.
PRE-OWNED VEHICLES SYSTEM SPARE PARTS
OUR EXCLUSIVE E-COMMERCE TEACHERS AND
MULTI-BRAND PARTS RANGE E-COMMERCE SITES
Aramis Group - Since 2016, Aramis Group has Spoticar – Spoticar is the used car multibrand
created a partnership with PSA Peugeot- label of Stellantis. Both a digital platform and The name of the original
Citroën Group (now Stellantis). A pioneer in its a large network of proximity outlets from the parts of the group for all
field, Aramis Group is an online multi-brand Stellantis networks, Spoticar is the obvious our Brands vehicles.
purchase and sale of used cars present in 6 online and offline choice for used car buyers.
countries with its brands Aramisauto, Cardoen, Spoticar brings a large offer of qualitative used Estabilished in 1932. Estabilished Created Our multi-brand Multi-brand Online used
Clicars, CarSupermarket, Onlinecars and vehicles, with innovative services. Spoticar in 2022 in 2016 distribution, repair network, parts sales site,
Brumbrum, respectively in France, Belgium, continues to grow and is already present in 12 belonging to memory sign established in created in 2010
Spain, United Kingdom, Austria and Italy. countries with more than 3,000 points of sales. Mister Auto created in 2016 2003 bought by the
group in 2020
Stimcar – Stimcar Is an innovative specialist in Autobiz - Since 2004, Autobiz has provided Group circular economy label Created in 2017 (B.pro) Online retail site for Online automotive
the reconditioning of used vehicles. Stellantis trade-in and valuation solutions to all the players created in 2022 SUSTAINera and modified in 2020 by multi-brand automotive repair quote comparator,
invested in Stimcar to support its development, in the European automotive industry. With over parts and accessories cover the Mister Auto and bought by replacement parts creation created in 2010, bought
strengthening circular economy initiatives. 15 billion data points collected and over 50 million range of parts from the circular the group (PSA automobiles date 2008, bought by the by the Group in 2016)
Present in several cities in France, Stimcar trade-in files in more than 35 countries, Autobiz is economy, (the 4R: REMAN, SA) in 2022 group in 2015
provides for the development of several a benchmark in vehicle valuation, consulting and REPAIR, REUSE, RECYCLE)
reconditioning centers in France and Europe. purchasing process digitization.
Stellantis parts offering aims at covering almost all brands (including competitive vehicles) and models and the three
market segments in a best / better / good approach, whatever the vehicle age and budget, going from:
■ Best for customers looking for quality, durability and wanting to enhance their vehicle’s resale value: Mopar genuine
parts and SUSTAINera remanufactured parts for all Stellantis models
■ Better for smart buyers looking for price without compromising on quality: Exclusive multibrand private labels with
Eurorepar and bproauto, multi-brand supplier range and SUSTAINera multi-brand repair offer for electronic parts and
automvatic gearboxes
■ Good for best cost customers looking for a price and to extend the life of their vehicle: muti-brand Bölk and SUSTAINera
multi-brand genuine reuse parts offer.
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
Impact of software strategy 8 SOFTWARE HUBS
DELIVERING CUTTING-EDGE
Our electrification and software strategies will support the shift to become a sustainable mobility tech company, leveraging
MOBILITY
the associated business growth with over-the-air features and services, and working to deliver the best experience to
our customers.
Stellantis is shifting its business model to become a mobility tech company. It aims to grow its software and connected
Auburn Hills, Mich,
services business through:
United States
■ Services and Subscriptions
■ Features On Demand Pernambuco, Brazil
■ Data as a Service and Fleet Services
Poissy, France
■ Conquests, Service Retention and Cross-Selling.
In addition, this software strategy is expected to support vehicle pricing and resale value. Rüsselsheim, Germany
With eight software development hubs in seven countries (Brazil, France, Germany, India, Italy , Poland and United States)
Stellantis wants to deploy next-generation tech platforms building on existing connected vehicle capabilities to transform Gliwice, Poland
how customers interact with their vehicles,to generate €20 billion in incremental annual revenues by 2030, and to have
13 million connected cars on the road. In 2022 software revenues increased 25% versus 2021. Turin, Italy
Hyderabad, India
Through software and on-demand features, Stellantis will work to provide customers with the ability to tailor their vehicles
to individual needs and desires through over-the-air updates, further increasing the unique qualities of the varied brands
Bengalûru, India
within Stellantis and strengthening the bond between the vehicle and driver.
Software strategy is rolled out in 2021 and 2022
• by partnering with digital & engineering services, such as Foxconn for SmartCockpit; Amazon for connected
experiences, Qualcomm for digital chassis & high-performance computing power and aiMotive for artifical
intelligence and automated driving software.
• by recruiting talents to leverage technical expertise while adding software development resources to existing
Stellantis technical operations.
To increase the positive impacts and reduce the negative consequences of our activities throughout the value chain,
Stellantis takes specific actions that are designed to maintain or develop the Company’s environmental, relational,
financial, human, industrial and intellectual capital.
These efforts result in the value that the Company shares with its stakeholders. As a member of the Global Compact,
Stellantis supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): we responsibly contribute to the global For more information refer to
Contributions to SDGs Table
effort to transition to a more sustainable future .
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
MOVING TO A SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY TECH COMPANY
INPUTS OPERATING OUTPUTS OUTCOMES
CAPITAL ACTIVITIES PRODUCTS AND SERVICES VALUE CREATION
Broad portfolio of iconic and complementary automotive FOR STAKEHOLDERS
brands and mobility services, to cover all key segments:
AN OFFER FOR EVERY CUSTOMER!
ENVIRONMENTAL Global SUV INVESTORS AND
Renewable and nonrenewable SHAREHOLDERS
environmental processes and
resources. STLA
SmartCockpit American brands CUSTOMERS
FINANCIAL
Capacity to finance the economic STLA EMPLOYEES
development, either in-house or Brain
from financial markets. STLA Upper mainstream
AutoDrive SUPPLIERS AND
HUMAN
PARTNERS
Motivation of employees to
be innovative and adherence Design for circular
to governance principles, risk economy Develop HOST COMMUNITIES
management methods and products and AND CIVIL SOCIETY
Core
ethical values of the Company. services
INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENT
Manufacturing resources
available for production, research Buy and
and development, logistics manufacture Premium Support and
INTELLECTUAL enhance use
phase
Intangible assets such as
intellectual property and
organizational capital. Sell, Deliver, Luxury
Materials Maintain, Update
RELATIONAL
Stakeholder relations:
ability to share information;
E-mobility
brands and reputation. Manage product
end-of-life
TECH
Recycle
Innovative, clean, safe and
affordable mobility.
For more information see 6.1 and 2.5.3.2.1 For more information see 6.1 For more information see 1.1.4
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
1.1.2 KEY FIGURES GRI 2-1 GRI 2-6 SASB-000.B
Stellantis has operations in 36 countries around the world which is a strong asset for understanding and anticipating the
upcoming changes of customer expectations while creating value for all stakeholders.
A COMPLEMENTARY PRESENCE IN KEY REGIONS, WITH 3 PLILLARS: EUROPE, USA, LATIN AMERICA
ENLARGED NORTH SOUTH MIDDLE EAST CHINA AND INDIA
MASERATI OTHER TOTAL
EUROPE AMERICA AMERICA & AFRICA & ASIA PACIFIC
SALES SALES SALES SALES SALES SALES SALES
2.6 1.8 0.8 0.4 0.2 0.02 5.8
Milions of units Milions of units Milions of units Milions of units Milions of units Milions of units Milions of units
18.3% Market share 10.7% Market share 23.2% Market share 12% Market share 0.5% Market share 100% Market share
WORKFORCE WORKFORCE WORKFORCE WORKFORCE WORKFORCE WORKFORCE WORKFORCE3 WORKFORCE4
131,075 84,221 26,178 5,042 4,384 1,427 11,605 263,932
50% of total 32% of total 10% of total 2% of total 1% of total 1% of total 4% of total
REVENUES REVENUES REVENUES REVENUES REVENUES REVENUES REVENUES REVENUES5
€63,311 €85,475 €15,620 €6,453 €4,505 €2,320 €3,169 €179,592
mln mln mln mln mln mln mln mln
3 All outside Automotive division
4 Workforce KPIs are based on the CSR scope 2022. Legal entities joining Stellantis less than six month ago or out from the HR consolidation tool are not taken into account. So 2021 and 2022 workforce KPIs are not comparable.
5 (€ 1,261) million Unallocated items & eliminations which primarily includes intercompany transactions which are eliminated on consolidation.
WHO WE ARE GRI 2-7
170 14 Industrial operations Net Revenue More than Profit sharing
iconic brands
nationalities committed to offering in more than €179.6 130 markets to deliver €2 billion
billion
best-in-class fully 36 vehicles and services of redistributed to
Countries
electrified solutions unparalleled quality employees
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
PLANET AND PEOPLE IMPACT KEY FIGURES
PLANET PEOPLE
92% 98%
of plants with ISO 14001 certifications employees covered with internal or external health service
11% 0.93
Industrial and sites carbon footprint (scopes 1+2) reduced by vs 2021 thanks global gender wage ratio mean value and 27% of women in leadership
to efficiency projects and increase in decarbonized electricity, reaching 55% in 2022 position (L1-L2-L3)
~74%
of the Company’s total energy consumed at Stellantis plants with 208,535
employees trained
ISO 50001 certification
69% 70%
of the total fleet sold was covered by an LCA Up to of eligible employees benefit from remote work
40
Low Emission Vehicle offering expanded to electrified models:
92% 48% of passengers car nameplates in Europe and 14% of passengers car and light of White collars employees completed the annual appraisal process
duty truck nameplates in the U.S.
95%
100% of the Company’s vehicle in Europe are recoverable and
89%
of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements
85%
recyclable
The services bought from the adapted and sheltered sector added up to
81%
of waste recovered out of total waste generated
€50
million mainly in France and Spain
€19.7
million donated to non profit organizations
65% of all the active plants qualified as zero waste to landfill
4,779
including hours dedicated to employee voluntarism projects
3.2% €2
reduction in absolute water withdrawn billion profit sharing redistributed to employees
59 First
biodiversity projects implemented global employee survey: 83% of employees like the kind of work they do
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
1.1.3 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE FOR A BETTER MUTUAL UNDERSTANDING WITH GRI 2-12 GRI 2-29
SOCIETY
Stellantis activities have an impact on the perception and the decisions of many internal and external stakeholders.
The Company has identified its main stakeholder categories and has engaged with them in ongoing dialogue through
dedicated channels (refer to the following table).
Through effective dialogue with its stakeholders at the local and global levels, Stellantis works to ensure that:
■ there are opportunities to gain mutual understanding with the society and its constituents
■ the most material environmental, social or economic risks are identified and addressed and better prevention measures
are taken
■ actions are taken to reduce the negative effects of the Company’s operations and to develop opportunities for
value-creation
■ the Company remains attentive to sociological and technological changes
■ the Company is able to adapt its business model and propose new efficient solutions that meet changing expectations
and needs of the society.
Freedom of Mobility Forum
In 2022 Stellantis announced the creation a stakeholder initiative to contribute to public debate about freedom of mobility
in decarbonized world. The Freedom of Mobility Forum is becoming operational in 2023, is an international gathering of
passionate problem-solvers committed to fact-based discussions that challenge the status quo, expand perspectives
and identify how best to enable safe, affordable and sustainable freedom of mobility for a society facing the implications
of global warming. The Freedom of Mobility Forum offers a platform for open debate through which diverse, expert
contributors who represent industry, academia, government and civil society can propose approaches on how to provide
'freedom of mobility' for people and the goods and services they need while mitigating climate change. The Forum consists
of an annual public debate and information shared on a dedicated website. A select topic is chosen for each annual debate
within the following engagement principles:
■ global view: the forum will follow a 360-degree, interdisciplinary approach
■ fact-based: relies on proven facts to drive insights and explore new solutions
■ transparency: the forum is open to the public ensuring that all positions are made available to all
■ respect above all: attendees must engage in an honest, respectful, and collaborative manner, focusing on the interests
of current and future generations.
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
Beyond ideology, the annual debate leverages an interdisciplinary and research-informed approach, integrating all freedomofmobilityforum.org
relevant dimensions: social, economic, physical, environmental. The output from each public debate of the Forum will be
PRESS RELEASE
shared on the Forum’s website in an executive summary report, the key takeaways are meant to support actionable Stellantis to Launch “Freedom of Mobility Forum” to Address
next steps for stakeholders to implement in their respective disciplines . the Most Urgent Mobility Issues Facing Today’s Society
https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/press-releases/2022/june/
stellantis-to-launch-freedom-of-mobility-forum-to-address-
the-most-urgent-mobility-issues-facing-today-s-society
STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER
MEANS OF DIALOGUE MAIN TOPICS
GROUPS CATEGORIES
Private customers, ▪ Brand websites ▪ Customer satisfaction surveys and ▪ Quality of products and service
consumer groups ▪ Dealership networks market research ▪ Environmental performance of vehicles
and other road users ▪ Customer Relations teams ▪ Company’s social media ▪ Road safety
organizations ▪ Consultation with consumer panels ▪ Sustainable mobility
Clients
BtoB clients including ▪ Fleet sale team: direct engagement ▪ Monitoring of financial performance ▪ Financial and strategic performance
dealership network and participation in tenders and forecasts ▪ Quality of products, service and customer satisfaction
▪ Training on sales and marketing ▪ Analysis of all types of risks (including ▪ Environmental performance of vehicles and manufacturing
▪ Analysis of periodic customer ethical) before contracts are signed facilities
satisfaction surveys ▪ Sustainable mobility
Employees ▪ Internal communication (town halls, ▪ Suggestion collection processes ▪ Strategy, specifically decarbonization, economic and commercial
newsletters, employee portal, events, ▪ Periodic satisfaction surveys results
awareness campaigns, etc.) ▪ Training ▪ Market conditions
▪ Direct dialogue with management ▪ Workforce related topics such as diversity, learning, health and
safety, etc.
▪ Company transformation, impact on skills, new ways of working
▪ Career path
Employees
Employee and labor ▪ The Global Works Council ▪ Collective bargaining agreements and ▪ Strategy, notably decarbonization, economic and commercial
union representatives ▪ The Joint Union-Management Strategy employee relations agreements with results
Committee labor unions ▪ Market contexts
▪ Workforce related topics such as diversity, learning, health and
safety
▪ Company transformation, impact on skills, new ways of working
Shareholders and other ▪ Letter to shareholders ▪ Annual and quarterly financial results ▪ Financial and CSR performance
investors ▪ CSR Report and Annual Report ▪ Shareholders’ Annual General Meeting ▪ Strategy, results and forecasts
▪ Corporate website ▪ Investor meetings (including online
events on strategy)
Financial
Community Financial and SRI ▪ CSR Report and Annual Report ▪ Conferences presenting the company’s ▪ Financial and CSR performance
analysts ▪ Corporate website strategy (roadshows) ▪ Strategy, results and forecasts
▪ Annual and quarterly financial results ▪ Responses to questionnaires and
requests
▪ Discussion sessions
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER
MEANS OF DIALOGUE MAIN TOPICS
GROUPS CATEGORIES
Suppliers, partners ▪ Monthly meetings ▪ Supplier relations teams ▪ Company’s projects for products and industrial initiatives
in cooperation and ▪ Innovation days ▪ CSR self-assessment questionnaires ▪ Innovation strategy and plan
innovation projects and ▪ Supplier awards ▪ Responsible Purchasing Guideline ▪ Financial and CSR performance in the supply chain, and other
joint ventures, industry ▪ Suppliers’ convention ▪ Analysis of all types of risks (including measures to support the company’s strategy
Partners
associations ▪ Products/projects meetings ethical) before a contract is signed
▪ Presence of the Company’s delegates ▪ Sustainability clauses in contracts
in regional automotive industry bodies ▪ Joint development programs
and trade associations
Associations and NGOs ▪ CSR Report and Annual Report ▪ Responses to ad hoc requests ▪ Road safety
▪ The Company’s social media ▪ Charitable giving ▪ Human rights in the supply chain
▪ Meetings ▪ Freedom of Mobility Forum ▪ Environmental impact of activities across value chain
▪ Education and inclusion
▪ Freedom of mobility in a decarbonized world
Representatives of host ▪ Events (open days and facilities visits) ▪ Economic and social development in host communities
communities, including ▪ Meetings and discussions ▪ Environmental impacts near Stellantis facilities
local administrations ▪ Freedom of Mobility Forum ▪ Freedom of Mobility Forum
Research and teaching ▪ Intern and apprenticeship programs ▪ Awareness campaigns, sites visits ▪ Innovations on sustainable mobility and related topics (e.g.,
partners; including ▪ Laboratory space for doctoral/thesis and educational events held by the materials)
universities and students company’s facilities with local schools ▪ Freedom of Mobility Forum
schools ▪ Open Labs ▪ Freedom of Mobility Forum
▪ Chairs at universities, engineering
Civil Society schools and business schools in host
countries
Public institutions, ▪ Direct dialogue through ad hoc ▪ Freedom of mobility Forum ▪ Financial and CSR performance
including Governments, meetings and institutional channels ▪ Strategy, results and forecasts
public agencies and ▪ Participation in working groups and ▪ Product launches
regulatory bodies collaborative projects ▪ Investments in plants and technological development
▪ Social impacts of the transformation of the automotive sector
▪ Freedom of mobility Forum
Journalists and Media ▪ Direct dialogue ▪ Auto Shows ▪ Financial and CSR performance
▪ Press releases ▪ Corporate and brand websites and ▪ Strategy, results and forecasts
▪ Presentations and press conferences social media ▪ Product launches
▪ Freedom of Mobility Forum ▪ Investments in plants and technological development
▪ social impacts of the transformation of the automotive sector
▪ Freedom of Mobility Forum
Associations and NGOs ▪ CSR Report and Annual Report ▪ Responses to ad hoc requests Climate strategy
▪ Social media ▪ Joint development programs and Real-driving emissions
Environment ▪ Meetings protocols Freedom of Mobility Forum Circular economy
Groups
Environmental impacts of activities
Freedom of Mobility Forum
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
1.1.4 SHARED VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS
GRI 201-1 GRI 201-2 GRI 203-1
Creating shared and lasting value for our stakeholders
GRI 203-2
We acknowledge that long-term success is achieved by linking economic growth with respect, financial performance with
social responsibility, and industrial development with environmental stewardship.
To create and share value, we engage our stakeholders: our employees, our customers, our partners, our suppliers, our
host territories and their communities, our investors and the environment through dialogue and activities.
As a leading company and member of the Global Compact, we are committed to shaping a better future through a
strong sense of responsibility and leadership in a new era of sustainable mobility. The 2030 United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals are a framework for our actions in the transition to a more sustainable future.
1.1.4.1 Value created for Stellantis long-term investors
Responsible business conduct is key to secure long-term financial performance.
This long-term performance is essentially based on a stable and balanced capital structure that supports the rollout of
strategic projects and a robust strategic plan, designed to meet the mobility needs of our customers.
With the Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan, Stellantis has set ambitous targets in the fight against climate change, aiming
to reach carbon net zero emissions by 20386, with a 50% reduction by 2030. Taking a significant role in decarbonization,
as well as a decisive step forward in the circular economy, is Stellantis’ contribution to a sustainable future.
As part of that leadership, our comprehensive strategy includes the following targets:
■ an electric product offensive supported by plans to invest more than €30 billion through 2025 in electrification and
software development, including equity investments made in joint ventures to fund their activities, while targeting to
The plan also includes the use of
continue to be 30 percent more efficient than the industry with respect to total CapEx and research and development two battery chemistries by 2024
spend versus revenues. Stellantis will utilize three different Electric Drive Modules adaptable to all our platforms, covering to support various customer
needs: a high energy-density
all vehicles worldwide and sharing a high level of commonality, in order to optimize the overall cost efficiency by reducing
option and a nickel cobalt-free
complexity, eliminating duplication and improving development efficiency. Each of our four platforms will be designed to
alternative. By 2026, the first
allow the production of up to two million units per year. This will guarantee a critical size for optimized investments and competitive solid state battery
competitive unit cost. This is a key success factor for our value optimization. On March 1, 2022, Stellantis announced it plans technology is targeted to be
introduced.
to have more than 75 BEVs (sum of EU and NA portfolios) and reach a global annual BEV sales of five million vehicles by
2030, reaching 100% of passenger car BEV sales mix in Europe and 50% passenger cars and light-duty trucks in the U.S.
To support this ambition, the Company will work to develop a global EV battery sourcing strategy of over 400 GWh by
2030, with up to five gigafactories between Europe and North America are being developed with partners. Battery packs
will be tailored for a variety of vehicles – from smaller city cars to energy-dense packs for performance vehicles and trucks.
6 With single-digit % compensation of remaining emissions by 2038.
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
SETTING UP FULL ECOSYSTEM TO SUPPORT ELECTRIFICATION GROWTH
ELECTRIFICATION ACCELERATION MASTERING ELECTRIFICATION VALUE CHAIN
BEV Sales Leadership in EU30 5 GIGAFACTORIES Partner Location GWh SOP
#1 Commercial Vehicles, #2 Overall
Douvrin 40 2023
#1 U.S. PHEV Sales
Kaiserslautern 40 2025
2030
512
~400 Termoli 40 2026
390
288 +41% ~250 GWh ~150
BEV 204 3 Windsor 45+ 2024
PHEV 186 224 +20%
Kokomo 33+ 2025
FY ‘21 FY ‘22
Global LEV Sales
000 units
RAW MATERIAL PARTNERSHIPS
4
BEV PORTFOLIO
To More Than Double In 2 Years
Battery grade lithium Battery grade lithium Nickel and Cobalt Manganese Low-Carbon Nickel
hydroxide hydroxide Sulphate Supply Sulphate Supply Sulphate Supply
Today 2023 2024 2030
Sales Mix1
Global2 23 32 47 75+
e-PROPULSION SYSTEMS PARTNERSHIPS
22 30 42 60+ 100%
- 3 8 25+ 50%
Electric motors Electrified dual clutch transmission Solid-state battery Fuel cell stack
1 PC in EU, PC + light-duty trucks in U.S Excerpt from Stellantis FY ‘22 Results
2 In instances where a vehicle model is available in both EU and U.S., model is only included once in Global total https://www.stellantis.com/content/dam/stellantis-corporate/investors/
3 Closing subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals events-and-presentations/presentations/Stellantis_FY_22_Results_Presentation.pdf
4 Non-binding memorandum of understanding
For definitions and notes to slide refer to related Appendix
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
■ the execution of the synergy opportunities arising from the formation of Stellantis, with €7.1 billion net cash synergies
achieved by the end of 2022, more than two years ahead of €5.0 billion annual steady state target, a forecast to
maintain break-even point at less than 50% of consolidated shipments, the of battery cost reductions, and the continued
optimization of distribution and production costs and realization of new revenue streams, in particular from connected
services and future software business models
■ the vertical integration from the pack down to the cell design to get all the benefits from the chemistry active materials
that are so useful and precious. Our partnership with TotalEnergies-Saft and Mercedes-Benz, the joint venture (JV)
Automotive Cell Company (ACC), with LG Energy solution7 in Canada, with Samsung SDI in USA and sustainable
businesses with the most competitive cell suppliers are expected to allow us to save more than 40% cost in 2024
versus 2020 at module level through: module simplification, cell size increase, chemistry upgrade such as Vulcan Energy
(lithium), Controlled Thermal Resources (geothermal power), Alliance Nickel Limited (formerly GME Resources Limited),
Element 25 (manganese) and Terrafame (low carbon nickel)
■ the development of offers and services in response to the new mobility needs of customers, in areas such as used
vehicles, leasing, aftersales service and shared mobility
■ a software strategy to deploy next-generation tech platforms, building on existing connected vehicle capabilities
to transform how customers interact with their vehicles, aiming to generate approximately €20 billion in
incremental annual revenue by 2030. A non-binding memorandum of understanding signed with Foxconn
aimed at designing a family of purpose-built micro-controllers. Stellantis also continues its dedicated projects
with Waymo. As Chrysler Pacifica Hybrids equipped with the Waymo Driver have provided thousands of fully
autonomous rides in Phoenix, Arizona (U.S.), Stellantis and Waymo have now expanded their partnership to
study the local delivery services.
■ the ability to forge partnerships with responsible and innovative companies (such as startups), committed to
tackling climate change, as they are backed by investors who support initiatives for a low-carbon economy
■ an internal audit and risk management which includes environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks, so as to
reduce uncertainty in the long-term and capitalize on opportunities
■ a robust compliance and ethics system, based on the Stellantis Code of Conduct, which strives to ensure the
effectiveness of compliance programs in essential areas such as competition, anti-corruption, export control, data
privacy and type approval. The system is incorporated into the day-to-day working environment by a network of trained
officers responsible for implementing these programs and monitoring their application. Guided by the Company’s Code
of Conduct, this system fosters a culture of integrity within Stellantis and is intended to prevent ethical abuses liable to
damage our financial position and reputation.
7 The agreement between Stellantis and LG Energy Solution is subject to customary closing conditions.
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
Stellantis long-term performance is also based on a performance shared among all stakeholders through:
■ transparent and effective decision-making processes: to deploy its strategic plans over the long-term, Stellantis
opted for a governance structure based on a Board of Directors6 which is responsible for the management and strategic
direction of the Company and a Top Executive Team to drive all implementation plans
■ taking into account the interests of stakeholders in strategic or operational decisions: an ESG Committee at Board
level is in charge of monitoring, evaluation and reporting on the sustainable policies and practices, CSR strategy and CSR
performance. In addition, responsibility is exercised within all management or executive functions within the Company.
Making CSR central to decisions and actions can boost performance, allow our Company to improve its economic and
financial efficiency (reducing costs, driving innovation, creating new revenue streams, etc.), safeguard the value of its
assets, manage risks more effectively – whether they are environmental, legal, financial, social or reputational – and
protect its value and sustainability in the medium to long-term
■ a compensation policy for corporate officers and members of the Top Executive Team based on performance and a
long-term view of the Company, was approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting
■ the protection of shareholders’ rights, including the views of minority shareholders. Shareholders who meet the legal
and regulatory requirements may apply to have specific items added to the agenda of the Shareholders meeting by
submitting them to the Company’s registered office, as described in the Notice of Meeting. Electronic online voting is in
place in accordance with French, Italian and U.S. regulations and practices.
■ fair access to information to allow informed decision-making: Stellantis exercises its responsibility towards its
investors and shareholders and aims to provide them with access to key information so they can make fully-informed
decisions. Firstly, the fairness of the financial and CSR related data published is certified by third-party auditors. SASB
Secondly, Stellantis works to be fair and transparent in providing to all relevant parties with the strategic plan, financial https://www.sasb.org/
data and CSR commitments and performance, which are intended to show that the long-term risks have been
Task Force on Climate-related Financial
properly considered. In addition, Stellantis implements SASB Transportation standard and commits to implement the Disclosures
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures . https://www.fsb-tcfd.org/recommendations
■ managing the transition period toward electrification while delivering double-digit Adjusted Operating Income
(AOI) margins and maximizing shareholder value: Stellantis is targeting a Net Revenues to double to €300 billion by
2030 while sustaining double-digit AOI margin through the entire Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan period, and is also
targeting to generate more than €20 billion in Industrial Free Cash Flow in 2030, and a 25 to 30% dividend payout ratio
through 2025 along with the repurchase of up to 5% of outstanding common shares.
6 Board members are selected for their complementary experience and skills, particularly in risk assessment and CSR (for more details, please refer to
the Stellantis Annual Report).
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
1.1.4.2 Value created for customers
Stellantis CSR policy makes customers central to the Company’s processes, offering them:
A personalized customer/brand relationship
With a portfolio covering all market segments from luxury premium to mainstream and commercial vehicles, Stellantis
brands define actions to provide a unique experience for their customers.
Respecting human dignity, encouraging diversity and not condoning any form of discrimination, Stellantis commits to
gender and sexual orientation equality through targeted and mass market brand communications aligning with each
brand’s core values. All North American brands have created “Pride” merchandise lines to appeal to LGBTQTIA+ audiences
and the Jeep Brand created brand activations at the Detroit and New York Pride parades in 2022.
Easy and shared mobility through global mobility brands for both B2B and B2C
Mobility transformation is driven by three key trends: electrification of vehicles and alternative powertrains, connected
and autonomous vehicles (CAVs) and Mobility-as-a-Service (MaaS). With its Free2move and Leasys brands, Stellantis
offers mobility services to facilitate customer mobility, both for private and business customers:
■ agility for all users: Free2move, a mobility tech brand, offers a complete and unique ecosystem for its private and
business customers around the world and specifically in Europe and the U.S.: services are digital and designed to satisfy
the needs of each user in large urban centers. The Free2move Mobility Hubs allow users to choose the best mode of
transportation depending on their travel needs: carsharing, rental by the minute or up to several months, car with
drivers (VTC ride), parking space, etc.
■ easy transition to electric mobility: in addition, to provide a response to its customers in the transition to the use of electric
vehicles, Free2move has also developed a range of solutions to remove the main obstacles and support individuals and
professionals towards electric mobility (i.e., eSolutions Charging App, All-e and future developments around fast charging and
V2G). Solutions that provide end-to-end charging and energy solutions such as 360° charging solutions to simplify private,
business and fleet customers charging experience, day-to-day smart charging offers with green energy, and launching a
unique fast charging network enabled by renewables, energy storage and 100% grid integrated. Free2move eSolutions a
joint venture between NHOA Group (NHOA.PA) and Stellantis N.V.is taking part in this EV fast charging network.
■ Customized and affordable transport solutions: Leasys has developed services:
● to B2C, with Leasys Miles, designed for the low-mileage consumer that can enjoy lower cost, thanks to the pay
per use formula, together with the full services offered by a professional mobility operator, Leasys Unlimited, long-
term rental product fully serviced and including unlimited mileage designed for the electric consumer of today and
tomorrow, Leasys I-Link a peer-to-peer carsharing platform, designed to be able to share the rented car with a
community (of friends, relatives or colleagues) up to a maximum of 10 people,
● to B2B, with Leasys I-Share, allowing companies to optimize the logistics management of shared cars thanks to the
I-Share corporate carsharing platform which facilitates the use and sharing of company vehicles.
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
Traveling in vehicles designed to meet quality and safety standards
Stellantis products are designed to meet customers’ requirements on quality and safety, which cannot be addressed
separately given the long lifespan of vehicles:
■ long-lasting quality: reliability, durability, ability to repair (availability of spare parts), comfort and preserved aspect are
major criteria closely monitored in the development process of any new vehicle
■ safety for all: Stellantis strives to protect the safety of each individual road user, including professional drivers in a
holistic approach including the vehicle, the road infrastructure and the vehicle environment.
The focus is on technologies with a proven ability to make vehicles safer including intrusion prevention and cybersecurity
threats. Safety devices prevent accidents, protect people in the event of an accident, alert the emergency services and
provide assistance. The acceleration of autonomous vehicle and connected technologies will contribute offering increasing
levels of safety, through:
■ technology that allows users to stay permanently connected while on the move
■ continued deployment of Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) foreshadowing the autonomous vehicle.
A Fair Total Cost of Ownership (TCO), based on sustainability and responsibility
■ Affordability is a priority at Stellantis, as the Company is targeting for the TCO of EVs to be equivalent to ICE vehicles
by 2026, supported by Stellantis software strategy. Each of the Company’s 14 brands is committed to offering fully
electrified solutions and doing so in a way that enhances the DNA of our brands.
■ To meet business needs, Free2move has consolidated cutting-edge expertise around data through digital
technology. The services reduce the TCO and carbon footprint of fleets (Connect Fleet, PHEV Connect, E-Mobility
Advisor, Multi brand services). Free2move has also developed a range of solutions to support customers
in the transition towards the use of EVs (i.e., eSolutions Charging and future developments around fast charging
and V2G).
■ Maintenance with spare parts for different needs
Offering a multi-brand one-stop-shop solution for all customers, Stellantis Parts & Services covers all brands and
models (Stellantis and nearly all non-Stellantis), with a price-for-value policy to meet all customer needs throughout
the entire life of our customers’ vehicles, whatever the brand and whatever the car – new, used, owned, rented or
shared. The offer comprehends:
● New Parts
■ Mopar® genuine parts for customers looking for quality, durability and wanting to enhance their vehicle’s resale value
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
■ Exclusive multi-brand private labels with Eurorepar and Bproauto, for smart buyers looking for price without
compromising on quality
■ Muti-brand Bölk range for customers looking for price
● Sustainable Parts from Circular Economy
Stellantis provides an extensive range of spare parts coming from the circular economy, under the SUSTAINera
label. It is an eco-responsible complement to the Stellantis spare parts offer.
The SUSTAINera parts and accessories program implements the 4R strategy through:
■ a full range of Remanufactured parts
■ a multi-brand original Reused parts catalog
■ a “Repair and return” service for multi-brand automatic gearboxes and complex electronic components
■ Recycling of parts and materials coming from the production, maintenance and end-of-life vehicle treatment.
The total range of sustainable parts covers more than 13% of customers’ aftersales needs and aims to help reduce
the cost of vehicle ownership, decrease the volume of materials heading to landfills and lower energy consumption.
■ A responsible approach to maintenance with spare parts verified to meet safety requirements
Due to their strong visual resemblance to branded parts, customers might be misled by counterfeit parts, which
might put customer safety, environmental protection or regulatory requirements at risk. In order to allow customers,
after-market and customs networks to authenticate genuine parts, Stellantis uses a secure label for most of its
replacement parts.
Assurance for business clients eager to highlight their own commitment to responsible purchasing
EcoVadis, operating a worldwide platform assessing Corporate Social Responsibility and sustainable procurement, has
awarded Stellantis a Gold medal for its rank in the top 1% of companies in their industry. Stellantis business clients can
therefore demonstrate their own commitment to responsible purchasing.
Over the next two years we intend to expand our electrification plan for commercial vehicles across all products and all
regions, notably based on an already 100% electrified van range in Europe, and first Hydrogen fuel cell van.
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
Ability to engage in electric mobility with affordable and desirable mobility devices combined with useful and
versatile services
■ A full portfolio of products and services able to tackle 360° customer needs in the journey of electromobility.
We have adopted an uncompromised customer centric approach also in the development of electric offer, which will
allow us to meet our customers’ expectations at the best level of performance. Our four BEV-by-design platforms
will bring solutions to what matters most to our customers in the era of electric mobility: range, charging time, price
and product variety.
● all our 14 brands are committed to offering best-in-class fully electrified solutions, delivering BEVs that meet demands
of customers, with ranges of 500-800 km / 300-500 miles and class-leading fast charging capability of 32 km/20
miles per minute
● customer’s first concern is charging: in partnership with partners, energy suppliers and investors, we will develop a
unique Fast Charging Network, to offer the best charging experience to our customers. We will also offer peace of
mind solutions with Smart Charging Packages («All e»). Our ambition is to provide the best customers experience,
whether for private or public charging, for both B2C and B2B usages
● our four BEV-by-design platforms provide affordability to all with common toolbox and systems: three core electric
drive module families to ensure efficiency, modularity and performances, and two battery cell chemistries.
■ EV mobility is also about integration in the new ecosystem.
■ The heart of the transformation to customer centric services is the new electrical/electronic (E/E) and software SW Day 2021
architecture. As announced on December 7, 2021 during the Stellantis Software Day , three new tech platforms (STLA https://www.stellantis.com/en/investors/events/
sw-day-2021
Brain, STLA SmartCockpit, STLA AutoDrive) will be launched in 2024 and will be deployed, at scale, across the four
vehicle platforms of Stellantis over the following two years.
■ This software strategy will move Stellantis’ vehicles from today’s dedicated electronic architectures to an open
software-defined platform that seamlessly integrates with customers’ digital lives. This platform is designed to greatly
expand the options offered to customers who can add, with their consent, innovative features and services via regular
over-the-air (OTA) updates keeping vehicles fresh, exciting and updated years after they have been built.
■ Providing disruptive solutions to the new urban usage of mobility is also a key mission vis-à-vis our customers.
■ Citroën AMI, an affordable and electric mobility solution that is accessible for all (with or without a driving license) is
a success without borders, with already up to more than 30,000 orders. Marketed in nine countries in Europe, in the
United Kingdom and in Turkey for professional and private customers. Environmentally friendly, the 100% electric AMI
emits zero emissions when driving and means access to increasingly restricted city centers.
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
1.1.4.3 Value created for employees
With Dare Forward 2030, Stellantis’ bold strategic plan for the coming decade, the Company is driving its employees to
be ‘second to none’ in value creation for all stakeholders. These changes require increased electrification, automation,
digital transformation, new production and sales processes to design and offer new products and mobility services
meeting customers’ new expectations. Employees expect transparency that includes their contribution to the future of
the Company and how the Company supports the surrounding communities where we operate.
Together with employee representatives and the unions, the Company is fostering a diverse culture, in which all join
forces to build the future, and where teams can compete to demonstrate and develop their talent. Our human resources
policy allows our employees to:
Develop in a culture where solutions are designed collaboratively
Our co-construction approach with our social partners to anticipate and manage upcoming transformation is a pillar we
have implemented since the beginning of the merger through collective agreements.
In addition, Stellantis encourages and transforms employee’s ideas and promotes an entrepreneurship spirit within the
Company though the Star*Up program as an internal incubator.
Take ownership of their career by developing their skills and prepare for the future
Stellantis focuses on ensuring a global approach for skills transformation, leveraging on global job families’ policy and
proper ramp-up plans and on setting up a global network of expertise as a lever to be front runner in tech leadership.
The Job Family approach provides a worldwide and cross-functional jobs and skills foundation for Stellantis, which is fully
integrated with talent management and learning policies.
From the very beginning of the creation of Stellantis, the software and electrification strategy is a highly relevant topic
shared with the social partners. In order to staff the new Software Division, a recruitment effort is deployed in five
main hubs, U.S., India, Italy, France and Germany, to provide software critical skills from the global tech labor market.
The hiring process started in July 2021 and allowed the onboarding of 300 newcomers at most levels in 2021 and recruit
up to 761 new employees in 2022 in this area. Furthermore, a Data and Software Academy was launched in 2022 to upskill
and reskill over 1,000 Stellantis employees per year in software professions and reconvert internal existing talents into
skills critical for the Company in the future.
The Data & Software Academy is also working on an innovative format to have content available 24 hours a day seven
days a week by developing a 3D virtual online academy that is slated to launch in 2023. The idea of the virtual 3D
academy is to propose a place that is accessible, at any time, using innovative technologies with a metaverse approach
integrating a Virtual Reality experience to complement the experience and provide the feeling of being together with the
teacher and colleagues.
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
The Electrification Academy delivers global e-learning programs around electrification and e-Mobility. In 2022, as
part of the global upskilling on electrification, 56,700 employees were trained on the global e-Mobility and electrification
fundamentals, through e-learning modules. The people trained on electrification-related topics within several professions
have been 14,500 with 94,000 hours delivered.
The Star*Up program, launched globally in 2021, is a program aimed at encouraging and transforming our employee’s
ideas and promoting an intrapreneurship spirit within Stellantis. Employees were invited to submit their ideas and each
region selected the top ideas to enter a three-month incubation phase. Each idea is accompanied by an internal coach
and the Incubees have access to a Platform with an introduction to innovation methods such as Design Thinking and
Lean Startup, essential to achieve success of the project. At the end of the incubation, winners of the regional finals
enter a 9-to-12 month experimentation towards first customers and first revenues in the Business Factory. Stellantis
also encourages and transforms employee’s ideas and promotes an entrepreneurship spirit within the Company. In 2022,
990 ideas have been proposed, 193 pitches and 59 have been incubated (versus 31 in 2021).
The Company invested approximately €197 million in training during 2022 which is 1.13% of employee wage expenses,
delivering about 3.17 million hours of training to approximately 208,535 employees. Through its Data and Software
Academy launched in 2022 Stellantis has upskilled and reskilled over 1,000 Stellantis employees in software professions
and reconvert internal existing talents into skills critical for the Company.
Work in an environment that promotes health, wellbeing and flexible work life balance
Wellbeing program:
In July 2022 Stellantis launched a new program dedicated to the wellbeing of all its employees: My Wellbeing. Through
this program, that supports the Care pillar in the Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan, Stellantis has an ambitious vision of
its employees' wellbeing which complements its health and safety fundamentals, occupational health, safety, ergonomics
and contributes to making Stellantis a great company to work for.
Work life balance:
Establishing a collaborative work method is incorporated into the social dialogue and applies to workspaces as well as
the expansion of remote working. The goal is to offer more flexible work arrangements without damaging collective
productivity. The New Era of Agility program is an innovative hybrid concept allowing eligible employees to remote work
up to 70%. Enhancing work-life balance leads to better performance and reduces stress as well as adding flexibility across
the various regions by reducing commute time. In several countries we have established the right to disconnect either
in the contracts, charters, policies or internal communications.
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
Showcase their talents in an inclusive environment where diversity is an asset
As set forth in our Code of Conduct, Stellantis is committed to gender equality, and is aligned with the vision of the
United Nations Sustainable Development Goal on Gender Equality. Also, Stellantis intends to sign up to the UN Women’s
Empowerment Principles, which encourages companies to promote gender equality and the empowerment of women in
the workplace, industry and community.
With this commitment, the Company shares its intention to adopt business practices that support gender equality and
empower women within the Stellantis organization, globally and across the automotive industry.
Stellantis voluntarily formalized its actions in favor of diversity in its social dialogue. On an international scale, the Collective
Bargaining Agreements on Social Responsibility are committed to exceeding local legal requirements in applying and
promoting the fight against racism, sexism, xenophobia and homophobia and, more generally, against intolerance of
differences and safeguarding respect for privacy.
Stellantis is firmly committed to respect and support human rights in all of our activities, in all of the countries in which we
operate. Stellantis pledges its commitment to respecting human rights throughout its entire supply chain, as describes in
its Human Rights Policy. In support of its commitments to human rights, Stellantis seeks to apply standards that protect
our workers, enhance our integrity across the organization and provide effective grievance mechanisms to employees and
stakeholders. Human rights are the foundation of our diversity and inclusion policy.
■ the gender equality policy is enforced worldwide and monitored with a female/male wage ratio. In 2022, it was 0.94 for
blue collars and 0,91 for white collars
■ Stellantis received the label “Happy Trainees” in the category “international” initiated by “Choose my company”, that
rewards companies that have particularly distinguished themselves in welcoming its trainees, apprentices and VIE
(Volunteer International Experience) within its institutions
■ Stellantis seeks to strengthen the place of more experienced employees and considers them an advantage for the
Company’s success. Through mentoring programs, the Company encourages knowledge transfer, builds leaders
who model inclusion through trust, transparency and feedback. This exchange and the coexistence of generations is
considered as an asset for social cohesion and business performance. In 2022, 98,500 Stellantis employees aged over
50 years (versus 91,812 Stellantis employees aged over 50 years in 2021)
■ Stellantis policy regarding social and occupational inclusion of people with disabilities is enacted worldwide through
various collective agreements with the goal of keeping workers with disabilities employed, carrying out preventive
actions and promoting their integration into the workplace. In 2022, 8,885 disabled employees.
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
1.1.4.4 Value created for suppliers and partners
FAST TECH TRANSFORMATION
JAN 17
2021
CREATED
ERAWTFOS
AUG 24: SMARTCOCKPIT
NOITACIFIRTCELE
JAN 5: CONNECTED EXPERIENCES
APR 14: SNAPDRAGON® JAN 5: STELLANTIS
DIGITAL CHASSIS™ DATA BUSINESS UNIT
MAR 1 HIGH-PERFORMANCE
COMPUTING POWER*
DEC 22: ADVANCED AI
2022 AND AD SOFTWARE
2023
STRATEGIC MAY 25: 5TH
DEC 2: ELECTRIC
PLAN GIGAFACTORY, USA
RETROFITTING
NOV 29: LITHIUM SUPPLY
OCT 10: NICKEL AND DEC 23: ZERO-EMISSION
COBALT SULPHATE SUPPLY HYDROGEN MOBILITY
JAN 20: SOLID-STATE BATTERIES
JUN 2: LITHIUM SUPPLY JAN 4: eVTOL AIRCRAFT
JAN 9: MANGANESE SULPHATE SUPPLY
MAR 23: 4TH GIGAFACTORY, CANADA
JAN 18: LOW-CARBON NICKEL SULPHATE SUPPLY
Stellantis' large and complex supply chain is an opportunity for suppliers and partners to get involved in a worldwide
eco-system facing major changes in its technological choices, customers’ habits and expectations and new approaches to
mobility in local markets.
Stellantis is committed to sustainable practices in its procurement activity, notably inspired by the due diligence approach
advocated by the OECD and the ILO rules. The selection of suppliers is based not only on the quality and on competitiveness
of their products and services, but also on their adherence to social, ethical and environmental principles (third party
* Snapdragon and Qualcomm branded products
assessment) and their ability to provide innovative solutions to support Stellantis face such challenges as climate change
are products of Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.
and wise use of natural resources and raw materials. and/or its subsidiaries
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
The Stellantis Responsible Purchasing Guidelines require new and renew suppliers to sign the guidelines and grant
awards are based on:
■ Innovation
Stellantis involves its core and strategic suppliers in a disruptive innovation process, which is essential in order to meet
commitments on reducing CO emissions, air quality, and finding more sustainable materials e.g., increased recycled
2
content for use in our products at a cost acceptable to customers. In 2022, 1,177 patents applications were published For more information refer to 7.1.5
by Stellantis , Stellantis’ suppliers participated in more than 10 Technology Day events in 2022, seven of which were For more information refer to 2.5.2.2
at Stellantis facilities in Europe and North America and more online or at supplier facilities. These events encourage
collaboration with Stellantis personnel and suppliers on innovative solutions for features, efficiencies and quality, and
allow suppliers to share their latest technological developments and concepts for the future . For more information refer to 7.1.7
Stellantis, as of 2022, is engaged in 21 joint innovation projects with 19 suppliers to identify and implement technologies
that reduce CO emissions of the vehicles as well as in the production of parts.
2
■ Efficiency
The CSR commitments that the Company asks its suppliers to make, enable them to reduce their own operational risks.
Suppliers are well-informed of best practices and regulatory changes, and can therefore benchmark themselves by
comparing their performance against the industry average, build on their strengths and implement action plans to work
on any weaknesses. Stellantis monitors the progress of the action plans required from suppliers. If necessary, it can help
them find solutions to improve their product quality or optimize their processes .
For more information refer to 7.1.5
■ Economic performance
In view of the demanding supplier selection process, being a strategic or core supplier of Stellantis demonstrates a high-
level of economic and CSR performance. Through innovation partnerships with Stellantis, suppliers are developing a
competitive edge. This distinguishes them from their competitors when bidding for contracts in other markets. They can
create commercial opportunities with customers who, like Stellantis, regard CSR criteria as a key aspect of the supplier
selection and listing process. The Company’s suppliers can communicate their own CSR commitment and performance
(notably their EcoVadis score) to their customers and/or host regions. Similarly, in being chosen to support Stellantis
on international projects, companies are boosting their prospects by increasing their presence and competitiveness in
new markets.
■ CSR performance
The Company’s responsible purchasing approach drives attention to validated CSR performance from our suppliers.
Our policy is to work with suppliers in a partnership to improve CSR performance overall. These expectations are an
integral part of the supplier relationship and require a continuous focus to ensure we apply the needed resources to
achieve top ranking status. This approach has created results that have Stellantis supplier CSR performance that is
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
clearly above the EcoVadis benchmark . Stellantis also requests the adoption and sharing of sustainable practices among For more information refer to 7.1.5
business partners, suppliers and dealers. The third-party assessment of suppliers based on CSR criteria encourages
suppliers to be vigilant for CSR risks within their supply chain. Detailed scores in those external CSR assessments allow
suppliers to launch action plans to improve their labor and purchasing practices and reduce their environmental impact.
As a response to the climate change challenge, Stellantis is notably transitioning to electric technology for mobility
devices, which rely on raw materials necessary to produce battery components. Some materials pose human rights
risks in the supply chain (lithium, aluminum, cobalt). Stellantis annually maps the sourcing of materials that are
essential to electric vehicle battery manufacturing, and is a member of global multi partner initiatives (RCS Global, Drive
Sustainability notably) to improve risk-identification in the supply chains. Stellantis suppliers are invited to join forces
in those global approaches and required to disclose to the Company their raw material suppliers. This allows them to
challenge their own supply chains to ensure a better risk coverage. The Company’s responsible purchasing approach is
useful in making its suppliers part of a positive trend. In 2022, the average score in EcoVadis of Stellantis suppliers was
54.6 in the environmental category and 54.1 for human rights, outperforming all suppliers assessed by EcoVadis, which
had an average score of 44.7 and 47.6 respectively.
1.1.4.5 Value created for host communities and civil society
PRESS RELEASE
A support to the social and solidarity economy and to communities:
Stellantis e-Mobility and DS AUTOMOBILES
■ raising awareness of environmental protection among young people: The e-Mobility Business Unit and DS at the 52nd Giffoni Film Festival 2022
Automobiles presented the Stellantis strategy in terms of sustainable mobility during the Giffoni Next Generation event https://www.media.stellantis.com/em-en/
e-mobility/press/stellantis-e-mobility-and-
to over 5,000 under-30s – the “Giffoners” about the impact of our actions on the planet
ds-automobiles-at-the-52nd-giffoni-film-
festival-2022
■ Socially responsible and educational projects:
● In 2022, a Stellantis Foundation grant supported 80 high-school-level FIRST Robotics teams, many mentored by
Stellantis employees, as well as the state championship event in Michigan. FIRST (For inspiration and Recognition
of Science and technology) is an international program designed to increase student interest in STEM activities and
encourage students to pursue a career or skilled trade in a STEM-related field.
● Stellantis supported 124 philanthropic projects in 2022 (versus 100 in 2021), €19.7 million were donated to community
organizations in 2022 versus €14.4 million in 2021.
● the Stellantis Student Awards – formerly the Sergio Marchionne Student Achievement Awards – is rooted in our
strategic plans and programs, supporting education and continued learning as critical functions to a sustainable
future. The Awards are open to all employees, ultimately benefiting their children who have recently graduated
from school or university with a financial award. The program reflects our corporate meritocracy, allowing each
child the opportunity to succeed based on a defined and transparent list of criteria that is streamlined across all
regions. In 2022, 1,500 applications were reviewed and a total amount of €715,000 has been distributed to the
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
● the global employee volunteerism program at Stellantis started as a former FCA program in 2014 designed to
empower employees to make a difference in their communities by connecting to projects, programs, and partners that
benefit from their talent. With a designated number of hours of paid time off, employees choose purposeful projects
that they feel passionate about, while communities where the Company operates benefit from the employees’ time
and expertise. The volunteerism program fosters a sense of service and gratitude, supporting the Company’s purpose
and values . Total number of employees participated into the volunteerism program is 713 in 2022 versus 1,117 in 2021. For more information refer to 7.3.5
● Projects created with our social partners and put in place in our communities , among others, For more information refer to 3.1.6
■ India: Construction of a school block for a government school and will benefit more than 300 rural students
studying in the school from surrounding villages in the vicinity of the Stellantis plant in Thiruvallur.
■ France: Hosting of young people from sensitive sectors on company discovery courses in their third and last year
at Clotilde Vautier College in Rennes. Hiring and training of refugee with AGIRC14 in Caen.
■ Spain: Support for women victims of gender-based violence and at risk of social and professional exclusion by
providing coaching to improve their skills to face job interviews, find employment opportunities and by giving
them social and economic support in partnership with non-profit entities (like the “Red Cross”).
■ Brazil: Estelar program which offers grants, transportation, food, life insurance and support for sports or gym.
Young people have tutoring at Stellantis, in addition to technical and qualification courses carried out by the
National Service for Industrial Training.
■ U.S.: Design and paint a mural on the exterior wall of Stellantis NV's new Jeep plant, part of the automaker's
$35 million community benefits agreement with the city and residents.
● Support to sheltered sector: the Company has also a strong involvement as a buyer from companies that only
employ people with disabilities in France and has widely expanded its operations in Spain over the last two years.
Stellantis works with six major French associations and with the Spanish association ILUNION. In total, 11 of our
vehicle plants in Europe are working with the sheltered sector. The services bought in 2022 from the adapted and
sheltered sector added up to €50 million.
● Contribution to road safety, both now and in the future: Stellantis is contributing to the definition of road safety through:
■ strong commitment in safety-related standardization activities (e.g., Functional Safety and Safety of the Intended
Functionality, relevant for autonomous driving and Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS))
■ participation to several cooperative projects regarding the safety of autonomous driving
■ development of international industry standards in cybersecurity notably through participation in the Automotive-
Information Sharing and Analysis Center (Auto-ISAC).
Stellantis presented its contributions to the L3Pilot automated driving project at the L3Pilot final event in Hamburg,
Germany, in conjunction with ITS World Congress, in October 2021. The event included driving demonstrations on
nearby motorways with several vehicles with Level 3 technologies. The piloting phase covered a wide range of driving
situations, including parking, overtaking on highways, driving through urban intersections and in close distance
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
automated lane change), Traffic Jam Chauffeur (Low-speed driving in congested roads), Remote Parking (in parallel
and cross-parking scenarios), Home Zone (path memory for repetitive maneuvers to park in and out in parking
areas).A fleet of sixteen Stellantis prototypes was deployed in different scenarios and driving situations and exposed
to variable conditions across several European countries to collect data, detect scenarios and evaluate all aspects of
the road tests, to answer key questions bringing these systems to the market.
Many important research institutes are involved with Stellantis in this field (i.e., SystemX and VEDECOM in France).
Stellantis also leverages several major cooperative funded projects such as L3Pilot (project finished in 2021 on level
3 driving pre-deployment project ), HiDrive (in use monitoring of driver for Level 3), successors of PEGASUS in For more information refer
Germany (Set Level 4 to 5, etc.) and SAM (Scenario database for ADAS and Autonomous driving Level 3) in France. to the box under 4.1.7.3
Several projects are also in place for the development of the technologies on autonomous driving and connectivity
such as Imagine (V2X) in Germany and C-ROADS (V2X), Mise VeDi 2025 and Mise Scala AD in Europe.
In addition, the Joint Research Laboratory (Joint LAB), with Valeo and Safran on Artificial Intelligence for Driving
Automation (Level 2/Level 3) is noteworthy among our current research partnerships.
In the area of tertiary safety, or post-accident emergency response, Stellantis provides emergency rescue sheets
with information to rescue teams or first responders on special design elements and the position of components to
be considered when assisting the occupants of vehicles involved in an accident. In addition, connectivity functions
provide assistance when an accident or health related incident occurs in the vehicle. The occupants are connected
with a dedicated assistance center that pinpoints the vehicle. For instance, motorway control centers in Europe are
automatically warned of any accidents on their roads via the emergency call service in the Company’s equipped
vehicles as this is becoming a legal obligation in Europe.
75% of Stellantis model are offered with Lane Keeping Assist technologies (versus 57% in 2021).
Support to the economic development of host communities:
■ Launched in 2021, the Black Supplier Development Program continued also this year, in collaboration with the National
Business League (NBL), to develop Black suppliers for future contracting and procurement opportunities in the pursuit
of greater racial equity in the marketplace. The Stellantis-NBL National Black Supplier Development Program will
support the development of Black businesses around the country and internationally for future opportunities within
the federal government and public and private sectors.
■ Technology eco-system: Stellantis aims at being more and more recognized as a technology company able to bring
innovative systems and services to its customers.
Stellantis works with stakeholders of the eco-system; this includes suppliers, technology organizations and research
institutes. All maturity phases of the technology (TRL – Technology Readiness Levels) are of vital importance for the
Company and, in particular partnerships with universities contribute to the lower TRLs, basic scientific research and
advanced research, providing disruptive and relevant affordable mobility solutions and services in decarbonization,
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
Support to the scientific development of host communities:
■ Engaging the universities: Stellantis partners with several international universities to get the best knowledge and
keep in touch with new talent. Among them: Polytechnic of Turin (Italy), University of Windsor (Canada) and McMaster
University (Canada) with the direct support of Stellantis to the International Degree in Automotive Engineering but also
direct collaboration in research and innovation projects University of Modena and Reggio Emilia (Italy) with the direct
provision of mechanical vehicle design courses University of Trento (Italy), for the study and development of Cooperative
driving assistance (ADAS) and Autonomous Driving (AD) enabled by Vehicle-to-everything (V2X) connectivity McMaster
University (Canada), Ohio State University (U.S.) and Oakland University (U.S.) in the field of hybrid and electric vehicle
technologies. Several universities in France in collaboration aimed at providing Stellantis with PhDs working for the
Company for three years Polytechnics of Milan and Turin, University La Sapienza in Rome and Federico II in Naples (Italy)
in collaboration aimed at providing Stellantis with PhDs working for the Company for three year.
■ Scientific Education: Stellantis continued to support scientific education, notably, through the CERN project unveiled
in 2019 in Geneva, Switzerland. This ambitious and innovative Science Gateway project is a hub for scientific education
and culture, meant to raise awareness, curiosity and love for science in every dimension for the most people possible.
The exhibitions will feature CERN's accelerators, experiments and computing, how scientists use them in their
exploration and how CERN technologies benefit society. Hands-on experimentation will be a key part of the Science
Gateway's educational program, allowing visitors to experience first-hand what it is like to be a scientist. The immersive
activities available in the Science Gateway will foster critical thinking, evidence-based assessment and use of the
scientific method which are important tools in all walks of life.The building supported through the grant is expected to
be ready in May 2023. The school project also is progressing, with plans to train the first 100 teachers in Spring 2023.
1.1.4.6 Value created for the environment GRI 201-4
Technological choices for a concrete impact
■ Eco-design and life cycle assessment to boost innovation: Stellantis conducts LCAs (Life Cycle Assessment)
on its vehicles and components to reduce material consumption and environmental impact of materials. These
studies analyze the multi-criteria environmental footprint of a vehicle and validate its components and materials
design. The entire product life cycle is taken into account from raw material extraction to manufacture, use and
end-of-life. Analyses are conducted using software linked to environmental databases that makes it possible to
calculate a product’s environmental impact. The goal is to compare the environmental impact from a new model
compared to the previous generation. LCAs can be used in the innovation phase to consider environmental impact
as early as possible. The analyses are usually conducted at the end of product design and include recyclability and
critical materials. LCA results can also be used in the planning of future vehicles. In 2022, LCAs covered 69% of the
total fleet sold (versus 62% in 2021).
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
A Circular Economy Business Unit to extend products lifespan and reduce waste
■ In order to further master the wise use of materials in the vehicle life cycle and reduce the environmental impact in
terms of carbon footprint, Stellantis has created a Business Unit dedicated to circular economy. As one of the seven
accretive Business Units outlined in Stellantis’ March 1, 2022 Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan, its aim is to build a
sustainable and profitable business based on circular economy principles investigating and expanding opportunities
in various areas such as the use of plant surplus (excess of parts and materials from factories), parts remanufacturing,
repairing, end-of-life vehicle management and recycled materials in a closed-loop process.In 2022, the Business Unit
also launched SUSTAINera as the Stellantis Circular Economy Label for all reman, repair, reuse, recycle parts. In terms
of geographical extension, the Circular Economy Business Unit started to develop a new remanufactured parts offer
in South America.In addition, in September 2022, Stellantis announced the creation of its first industrial hub in Italy
dedicated to circular economy in order to support the growth ambition in this business.
■ Sustainable spare parts offer in a circular economy mindset: The dealer network, promotes circular economy through
various offerings: remanufactured parts, repair services in Europe and reused parts from end-of-life vehicles dismantling.
■ Affordable maintenance with replacement parts for all budgets in a circular economy mindset: The total range
of sustainable parts covers more than 13% of customers aftersales needs and aims to help reduce the cost of vehicle
ownership, decrease the volume of materials heading to landfills and lower energy consumption.
■ Remanufactured Parts: Remanufactured product lines include parts such as starters, alternators, brake calipers,
electronic control modules, high-voltage battery packs, torque converters, steering, suspension and engine and
transmission product categories. Depending on the part, the average raw-material usage is reduced between 60% to
95%, while CO emissions are reduced between 30% to 80% compared with new part production (values determined
2
according to a methodology approved by an independent company - Sphera). The Company certifies the production
of remanufactured parts, manufactured internally or through specialized providers, in order to provide a sustainable
solution that is equivalent to original equipment parts and provides the same warranty conditions as new parts.
REMAN offer has been launched in Brazil, South America in Q2 2022. Overall Worldwide key figures: 37 product lines
including batteries, representing more than 13.000 part numbers with a sales growth of 19%.
■ Reused Parts: In 2020 Stellantis invested in Amanhã Global allowing a multibrand reused parts offer to customers
including B2C and B2B though an advanced e-commerce platform. In 2022, Stellantis there were sales in 155 countries,
with a growth of 108%.
■ “Repair & Return” service: extending the lifespan of complex products: Since 2011, Stellantis has been offering a
“Repair & Return” service for both automatic gearboxes and complex electronic products. This has been expanded
to include other repair services including HVB through a network of 21 e-repair centers around the world. In 2022,
Stellantis repair range includes 12 product families.
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
■ Parts recycling: Stellantis's recycling activity is currently available in four Regions: Enlarged Europe, North America,
South America, Middle East and Africa. In 2022, more than 1.7 million parts have been recycled including catalytic
converters, fascias/plastic bumpers, alloy wheels, High-Voltage Batteries.
■ Specific initiatives related to High-Voltage Batteries (HVB) When HVBs cannot be used in vehicles, Stellantis HVBs
can be processed in up to three solutions:
Repair and Remanufacturing: extend the use phase and avoid the premature recycling of High-Voltage Batteries
(HVBs). In 2022 we confirmed the extension of E-Repair Centers Regional coverage to 21 centers, strengthening the
presence in Enlarged Europe and opening in India and Asia Pacific region.
Second-life: Stellantis is also continuing to work on solutions to repurpose for reuse HVBs in non-automotive business
in order to use batteries as long as possible before sending them to recycling, prioritizing Second-life activities
In 2022 Stellantis has collaborated with several utility companies and battery integrators by providing Second-life
batteries and collaborating with them in designing and creating energy storage facilities.
Recycling Process: in 2021, the partner’s recycling rates were 69.3% for Lithium-Ion (Li-ion) batteries and 83.8% for
Nickel Metal Hydride (NiMH) batteries. The results for 2022 are not yet available at the time of publication of this report.
These rates are significantly higher than the 50% regulatory thresholds for recycling efficiency. This agreement covers
the dealership networks and industrial sites for all current Li-ion and NiMH batteries across all European marketing
countries.
■ Revenue generation from Circular Economy Business Unit The Dare Forward ambition for the Circular Economy
Business Unit is to reach €2 billion total revenue generation by 2030 on this scope of activities.
■ Green materials: Stellantis is involved in a large number of scientific partnerships to boost the development of the
green materials industry and expand the use of these materials in vehicles.
■ The latest vehicles brought to the market illustrate the results obtained on the inclusion of materials that are recycled
or from natural sources. The following examples show the diversity of applications validated on the last vehicles from
the different brands in the main regions of commercialization, as follows:
● Jeep Renegade (Upland Special Edition) in the interior trims of the dashboard has adopted recycled PC/ABS and an
extensive use of textiles based on recycled PET.
● Maserati Grecale in the tufted floor carpets uses recycled polyamide derived from disused fish nets recovered in the sea.
● Peugeot 408 integrates 100% of post-consumer P/E-I in the Mudguard components and a combination of 95%
post-consumer and 5% post-industry polypropylene in the bumper.
● Fiat Fastback extended the use of polypropylene and wood fibers composite materials to cargo load floor in the trunk.
● Citroën C3 in South America achieved a historic result for the region with a high mass of green materials applied in
eleven different applications, with emphasis on applications in recycled polypropylene.
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
A holistic approach to support carbon neutrality and biodiversity recovery, reduce resource use and
environmental impacts
Stellantis considers its impacts on the environment with a 360° and pragmatic approach:
■ Inside the Company boundaries:
● launching an electric product offensive, which aims to sell 100% of electric passengers car sales in Europe and 50%
of passengers car and light duty truck sales in North America by 2030, reaching 100% by 2038.
● reducing vehicle diversity. Mindful of vehicle CO 2 emissions regulations compliance, Stellantis is reducing its vehicle
diversity to focus on developing environmentally friendly technologies that can be rolled out on a large scale.
● investing in manufacturing process improvements to transform production locations in a more efficient and
sustainable condition to reduce their CO emissions (through energy efficiency and increased usage of renewable
2
energy), their water consumption and their waste.
■ The CO 2 emitted resulted in 3,443 tons of CO 2-eq versus 3,874 tons of CO 2-eq emitted in 2021
■ In 2022, Stellantis generated in total 302,858 tons of waste versus 305,468 tons in 2021, and withdrew in total
26,661 thousand m3 of water versus 27,540 thousand m3 of water in 2021
■ In 2022, 65% of all the active plants have been qualified as zero waste to landfill facilities and 100% of metal waste
is recycled. 92% of plants have ISO 14001 certification
■ upstream:
● engaging suppliers on climate-related issues: as of 2022, more than 65% of our most important suppliers (based
on APV) commit to a CO trend which complies with the Paris Agreement
2
● associating them to decarbonized energy: In South America, Stellantis works to measure, manage and reduce the
annual GHG emissions produced by the daily activities of the plants through an emission inventory verified by third
parties. The reduction of emissions is the result of the combination of actions focused on energy efficiency, use of energy
from a renewable source and substitution of fossil fuel for ethanol and electricity in motor-propulsion. The effort to
reduce emissions gradually extends to the supply chain and dealership networks, through actions that seek to meet the
objectives established in the Stellantis’ long-term strategic plan Dare Forward 2030. Stellantis was also recognized by
the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program with Gold Seal for the completion and certification of the GHG emissions inventory.
Completing an inventory of emission sources is a key step in the roadmap to achieving carbon net zero by 2038.
■ downstream:
● providing customers with green energy solutions through day to day smart charging offers:
■ A partnership signed between Stellantis and Digital Charging Solutions GmbH, will provide Jeep 4xe or Fiat EV
customers access to the digital service “My easy Charge,” offering them a single provider for the largest charging
network in the world. With just one app and one single card the charging solution will provide access to more than
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
■ A partnership was also formed between the Jeep Brand and Electrify America to install solar charging stations on
Jeep Trails in North America in March 2021.
■ Stellantis’ partnership with NHOA is developing Atlante, a public Fast and Ultra-Fast Charging network in Southern
Europe. The network will be enabled by renewables and energy storage and 100% grid integrated. Free2move
eSolutions will act as turn-key technology provider and NHOA will develop the network. Approximately, 5,000 fast
and ultra-fast charging points should be installed by 2025 and 35,000 by 2030.
■ outside its value chain:
● supporting the Amazon Forest Carbon Sink Project: since 1998, the PEUGEOT-ONF forest carbon sink project PEUGEOT-ONF forest carbon
sink project
in Mato Grosso, Brazil involves reforesting areas of degraded land and restoring biodiversity while studying the
https://www.onfinternational.org/
relationship between reforestation and the absorption of atmospheric carbon dioxide. More than 604,000 tons of
implementation-prc/
CO-eq have been sequestrated through biomass and soil. Two million trees including more than 50 native species,
2
were reintroduced in a plantation of nearly 2,000 hectares, more than 40 new global species were discovered.
● supporting Tamar Project in Brazil, to protect sea turtles: The Tamar project has been working for over 40 years in
the preservation of sea turtles present in several locations along the Brazilian coast. A connection between the Tamar
Project and Jeep began in 1982, when the first researchers already used models of the brand, which guaranteed that
they could get anywhere, facing the challenges of trails and roads, to collect and release baby turtles into the sea
after failing to reach the surface upon leaving the nest. Since early 2018, this Jeep and Tamar Project partnership
became a reality with the availability of Jeep 4x4 models for the project.
1.1.4.7 Distribution of added value
Distributions Year (in millions of euros) (as a % of revenue)
2022 8,938 5.0
CapEx + R&D1
2021 10,081 6.6
2022 2,729 1.5
Public sector2
2021 1,911 1.3
PRESS RELEASE
2022 18,200 10.1
Employees3
Stellantis Employees Rewarded with
2021 17,100 11.2
Record €2 Billion Worldwide Linked to Full
2022 3,353 1.9 Year 2022 Performance
Shareholders4
2021 3,765 2.5 https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
press-releases/2023/february/stellantis-
1 Gross R&D Expenses, research tax credit and subsidies excluded. employees-rewarded-with-record-2-billion-
2 Corporate Tax. worldwide-linked-to-full-year-2022-performance
3 Bonuses and profit sharing included.
4 Dividends paid to Shareholders.
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
DISTRIBUTION OF VALUE CREATED IN 2022
Customers
14 iconic brands committed to offering best-in-class fully electrified solutions Affordable maintenance with spare parts from circular economy: close to 60%
Two mobility brands offering mobility solutions including subscription of vehicle content covered by reused parts offers; cost savings for customers up programs, carsharing and charging services with 61,304 LEVs infleeted to 40%
during 2022 Higher level of product quality through 100% of the Stellantis vehicle assembly
plants and powertrain plants certified ISO 9001 or IATF 16949
30% reduction in vehicle defect rates
Employees
Personnel cost: €18.2 billion Remote work: up to 70% of work from home for applicable jobs
Profit sharing: €2 billion redistributed to employees Annual appraisal: 49% of employees
Training: €211 million invested delivering about 3.17 million hours of training to Diversity and inclusion: 27% of women in leadership position (L1-L2-L3)
approximately 208,535 employees 233,015 employees, accounting for 89% of the workforce are covered by
Total lost-time accident frequency rate: 1.25 collective agreement
Environment
Investments: €5.2 billion of R&D costs during 2022 and over €30 billion Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) covered 69% of the total fleet sold Vehicles
total investment planned through 2025 for electrification and software available in Europe are 95% recoverable and 85% recyclable
development High-Voltage battery recycling rates: 69.3% for Li-ion batteries and 83.8% for
2030 Electrification plan: 100% of passenger car models marketed in Europe, NiMH batteries
and 100% of passenger car and light duty truck models in the U.S., planned to Manufacturing initiatives: control energy consumption led to savings of
i Ln oc wlu d Ee
m
a
is
f su ioll ne l Ve ect hr ii cc
l
ev e or fs feio rn
ing: expanded to 40 electrified models9: 48% of
Gap lop bro ax
l
Bim Ea Vt e sl ay
l
e€ s2 u8
p
m 41il %lio n
y
ew arit oh
v
e em
r
yis es aio rn reduction of 123,000 tons of CO2-eq
passengers car nameplates in Europe and 14% of passengers car and light
duty truck nameplates in the U.S. Carbon footprint reduced by 14% compared to 2021
Host communities and civil society
Philanthropy: more than €19.7 million to support 124 projects focused on Youth development: 4,378 apprentices and 2,110 interns trained
education Direct contractual relationship with more than 2,000 Tier 1 direct material
713 Stellantis employees participated in employee volunteerism program suppliers
Investors and shareholders
Net Revenue: €179.6 billion EU Taxonomy Regulation aligned Revenues: 7%, OPEX: 27.5%, CAPEX: 22%
€4.2 billion ordinary dividend10 Industrial Free cash flow: €10.8 billion
Adjusted operating margin: 13.0% Net profit: €16.8 billion
Wages to revenue ratio: 10.1% Synergies: €7.1 billion net cash benefit
Suppliers and partners
Purchase: more than €98 billion Building an innovative and powerful ecosystem with strategic partnerships
CSR performance: more than 2,974 suppliers assessed by EcoVadis, with notably Automotive Cells Company, Controlled Thermal Resources,
corresponding to more than 87% of the annual purchased value Factorial Energy, LG Energy Solution, Samsung SDI, Umicore and Vulcan Energy;
and collaborations with Amazon, BMW and Foxconn
1,177 patents applications published
Global innovation ecosystem: more than 160 co-founded projects worldwide
with over 1,000 partners
Economic and financial value
Environmental value 9 Passengers car an light commercial vehicles nameplate in Europe and passengers car and light duty truck nameplate in the U.S.
Social value 10 Subject to shareholder approval.
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
1.2 Material CSR risks and opportunities inherent to the value creation model
1.2.1 CSR MACRO-RISKS AND RELATED CSR ISSUES: STELLANTIS CSR PILLARS AND
CHALLENGES GRI 3-2
Stellantis has identified six CSR macro-risks and addresses them in accordance with the UN Sustainable Development
Goals. These six CSR macro risks are the six pillars of Stellantis approach to Corporate Social Responsibility. In light of
the Company’s activities, each macro-risk has been broken down into a number of CSR issues, which are material to the
Company and its stakeholders. These CSR issues are Stellantis CSR challenges.
CSR risk management approach
Given its determination to take Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) into account in all its decisions and activities, Stellantis
takes the same approach in managing CSR risks as it does for its other risks: the CSR risks are subject to internal control
and are specifically included in the Company’s Internal Audit plan.
The Company’s risks and associated control procedures are described in section 1.2.3 and further detailed in the risk For more information refer to 1.2.3
management section of the Annual Report . Annual report
https://www.stellantis.com/content/dam/
stellantis-corporate/investors/financial-reports/
1.2.2 STELLANTIS MATERIALITY MATRIX: RELATIVE POSITION OF THE 22 CSR Stellantis-NV-20221231-Annual-Report.pdf
CHALLENGES GRI 2-12
For Stellantis, a material CSR issue is a sustainability factor that can have a present or future impact on the Company’s
value drivers, competitive position, and therefore on long-term stakeholder value creation.
22 CSR issues are considered to be material by Stellantis experts and stakeholders, according to two criteria:
■ those that reflect the environmental, economic and social impacts of the Company’s activities;
■ those for which the environmental, economic and social contexts in which the Company operates have impact on the
Company’s performance.
Based on this double materiality approach, those CSR issues are considered as having a substantive influence on the
stakeholders’ assessments and decisions. Hence each CSR issue is a CSR challenge for Stellantis.
This CSR Report presents a definition, the Stellantis ambition and commitment and the main initiatives and achievements
related to each CSR issue / challenge.
Throughout the year Stellantis reviews progress on the CSR issues / challenges and the status is validated by the
Top Executive Team and presented to the Board of Directors.
The Company adopts measures proportionate to the position of each CSR issue / challenge in the materiality matrix. These
measures are described in this CSR Report.
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
Stellantis CSR macro-risks / pillars and CSR issues / challenges The 22 CSR issues are grouped
in 6 macro-risks (pillars)
6 CSR MACRO-RISKS / PILLARS 22 CSR ISSUES / CHALLENGES
Bringing a tangible impact 1 Vehicle CO 2 emissions
on climate change
2 Industrial and sites carbon footprint
3 Carbon footprint of the supply chain: purchasing and logistics
Driving Company Management of Company transformation and social dialogue
4
transformation through
the development of human 5 Attracting and developing all talent
capital
6 Diversity and equal opportunity
7 Health, safety and well-being in the workplace
Meeting changing 8 Development of new mobility solutions (including autonomous vehicles)
customer expectations
on mobility 9 Vehicle and service quality - customer satisfaction
10 Vehicle safety
Preventing ethics violatio 11 Ethics in governance and business practices
12 Responsible management of personal information
13 Responsible information to customers
Promoting protection and 14 Wise use of materials in the vehicle life cycle (including product recycling)
implementing responsible
use of natural resources 15 Vehicle impact on air quality
16 Optimization of material cycles in manufacturing processes (including waste)
17 Control of industrial discharge and nuisances
18 Sustainable water management in manufacturing
19 Protection of biodiversity
Ensuring protection of 20 Responsible purchasing practices to support the Company’s development in host territories
human rights and supporting
a balanced economic 21 Human rights in the supply chain
development of territories
22 Philanthropic actions to support communities
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
STELLANTIS CSR MATERIALITY MATRIX
Vehicle CO emissions
2
Industrial and sites carbon footprint
Mapping of 6 CSR macro risks / pillars developed in 22 CSR issues / challenges Carbon footprint of the supply chain:
purchasing and logistics
Management of Company transformation
Bringing a tangible impact Substantial CSR issues Significal CSR issues Strategic CSR issues and social dialogue
on climate change 4 Attracting and developing all talent
Diversity and equal opportunity
Driving the Company
Health, safety and well-being in the
transformation through workplace the development of human
capital Development of new mobility solutions
(including autonomous vehicles)
Meeting changing customer
expectations on mobility 3 Vehicle and service quality - customer
satisfaction
Vehicle safety
Preventing ethics violations
Ethics in governance and business
Promoting protection and practices
implementing responsible Responsible management of personal
use of natural resources information
2
Responsible information to customers
Ensuring protection
of human rights and Wise use of materials in the vehicle life
cycle (including product recycling)
supporting a balanced
economic development of Vehicle impact on air quality
territories Optimization of material cycles in
manufacturing processes (including waste)
1
Control of industrial discharge and
nuisances
Sustainable water management in
manufacturing
Protection of biodiversity
Responsible purchasing practices to
support the Company’s development in
0 1 2 3 4 host territories
Human rights in the supply chain
IMPORTANCE OF THE CSR ISSUES FOR THE COMPANY’S ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Philanthropic actions to support
communities
SEUSSI
RSC
EHT
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREDLOHEKATS
EHT
FO
ECNATROPMI
1
2
3
4
5
6
1
2 7
15
3
8
14 8
19 11 10
16 21 7 9 9
13 17
18 6 20 4 10
12
5 11
12
13
22
14
15
16
17
18
19
Last update in 2021 20
21
22
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
Materiality Matrix Methodology
The CSR risk assessment was the first step in the process: the CSR issues and macro-risks were identified based on
the expertise of the network of CSR correspondents and contributors, representing relevant organizations within the
Company and on a dialogue with main stakeholders (partners, clients, employees, civil society , financial community and
environment groups). This materiality assessment allowed us to identify critical economic, environmental and social issues
on which we have impacts or which have a significant impact on our business performance and long term value creation.
The result was confirmed by a review of issues reported by industry peers and an analysis of worldwide CSR reference
and reporting standards.
A representative sample of stakeholders was then interviewed to ascertain their opinion.
This structured approach enabled to score and position the CSR issues on the matrix:
1. the position of the issue on the horizontal axis represents the importance of the CSR issue for the business
performance of the Company, according to three criteria:
● likelihood of the threat materializing and opportunities created by the issue
● the seriousness of the impact for the Company, quantified in monetary terms by the Division affected, in case of
absence of action
● impact on long-term performance, in case of absence of action.
2. the position of the issue on the vertical axis represents the importance of the stakeholders’ expectations on the CSR
issue, based on their assessment on the impact Stellantis activities have on the environment and the society:
● the score given for each issue by the interviewed stakeholders reflects their perception of the impact the Company
can have on each issue.
● the score is weighted based on the contribution of each stakeholder and their expertise on the issues.
The materiality matrix is compliant with the double materiality principle that companies should report not only on
financially material topics that influence their value, but also on economical, environmental and social impacts that the
company have on the society.
An external provider ensured that each issue was scored strictly and fairly using a rigorous methodology.
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
1.2.3 EXTENSIVE ASSESSMENT OF RISKS GRI 2-12
The overall Risk Management System of Stellantis integrates the identification and assessment of climate-related risks. TCFD.Ra TCFD.Rb TCFD.Rc
Stellantis uses a group-wide risk analysis framework to assess, manage and report risks, including climate-related
physical and transition risks and opportunities. All functions are expected to identify and update the risks inherent to their
activities. The principal risks in each function, those which are most critical, are analyzed each half year. The enterprise risk
assessment is based on a bottom-up approach beginning with functional areas, and concludes with the review by the
responsible Chief Operating Officers. The central Risk Management team consolidates results into a report for review and
validation with the Top Executive Team.
Stellantis Protection, Audit and Risk Management Department is in charge of assessing the magnitude of the risk as
well as the degree of maturity of the risk management measures adopted. The assessment and prioritization process
of risks/opportunities, including those posed by climate change, starts with classification of likelihood of the risk
occurrence, potential impact on profitability, business continuity and reputation, and mitigation actions in place. These
elements determine the residual risk rating defining the risk significance and prioritization for the Company. Risks that
are identified as having high- or medium-high rating are considered significant. The top significant risks, those that might
have a substantive financial or strategic impact on the business, are deemed ”Top Risks”. Each Top Risk is then classified
by risk categories (Strategic, Operational, Financial and Compliance) and control measures and mitigating actions are
subsequently defined.
Results of the risk assessment are submitted to the Audit Committee, assisting the Board of Directors in their responsibility
for strategic oversight of risk management activities. The Audit Committee reviews risk protocols and covers the spectrum
of the climate-related physical and transition risks that could have an impact on the Stellantis financial and accounting
information. The Board of Directors validates the mapping of Top-Risks.
Stellantis’ risk management system includes action plans and quality indicators, which are audited by the Risk Department
of the Company.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) macro risks and issues are also embedded in the Top Risks process through
interviews of a significant number of managers and top managers. The relevant actions are reflected in the mitigation
plans implemented in operational divisions and included in training programs as needed.
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
CSR PILLARS AND THEIR CHALLENGES EMBEDDED IN STELLANTIS DARE FORWARD STRATEGIC PLAN
CARBON NET ZERO EMPOWERING DIVERSITY EVERY JOURNEY
BY 2038 AND INCLUSION MATTERS
CLIMATE CHANGE HUMAN RESOURCES CUSTOMERS EXPECTATIONS
1 Vehicle CO 2 emissions 4 Management of Company transformation and 8 Development of new mobility solutions
social dialogue (including autonomous vehicles)
2 Industrial and sites carbon footprint
3 Carbon footprint of the supply chain: purchasing 5 Attracting and developing all talent 9 Vehicle and service quality - customer
satisfaction
and logistics 6 Diversity and equal opportunity
10 Vehicle safety
7 Health, safety and well-being in the workplace
ALWAYS WITH PRESERVING RESPECT AND SUPPORT
INTEGRITY NATURAL RESOURCES OUR COMMUNITIES
ETHIC CULTURE RESPONSIBLE USE OF RESOURCES HUMAN RIGHTS
11 Ethics in governance and business practices 14 Wise use of materials in the vehicle life cycle 20 Responsible purchasing practices to support
the Company’s development in host territories
12 Responsible management of personal 15 Vehicle impact on air quality
information Optimization of material cycles in manufacturing 21 Human rights in the supply chain
16
13 Responsible information to customers processes (including waste) 22 Philanthropic actions to support communities
17 Control of industrial discharge and nuisances
18 Sustainable water management in manufacturing
19 Protection of biodiversity
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
1.2.4 CSR TRAJECTORY
CSR ISSUE/CHALLENGE VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT
Medium-term Short-term Long-term
(End of Strategic Plan)
Carbon footprint reduction in Contribute to a global carbon GHG emissions reduction (%) 2023: targets for vehicle 2030: reduce GHG 2038: carbon net zero, with
the whole value chain neutrality, with an ambitious (absolute GWP in scope 1 and 2, programs under development emissions by 50% vs 2021 single digit % compensation
Owner: Chief Planning Officer carbon footprint reduction intensity GWP (per veh) for scope consistent with -50% 2030 level of residual emissions vs 2021
roadmap 3 - 1.5°C scenario - Global objective level1
1 Vehicle CO emissions Propose a wide range of Low Percentage of nameplates with 2025: 2030: 2038:
2
Owner: Chief Planning Carbon mobility devices, LEV offering (focus on U.S. and EU) EU Passenger Cars (PC): 96% EU PC: 100% nameplates EU PC: 100% nameplates
Officer rapidly available in countries U.S. PC & Light Duty Trucks with BEV offering with BEV offering of operations, to contribute to
(LDT): 91% U.S. PC & LDT: 100% U.S. PC & LDT: 100%
the race to carbon neutrality, by
nameplates with BEV nameplates with BEV
leading CO emissions reduction
2 offering offering
Share of LEV in global sales 2025: 2030: 2038:
mix (focus on U.S. and EU). EU PC: 44% LEV (incl. 34% EU PC: 100% BEV EU PC: 100% BEV
BEV) U.S. PC&LDT: 50% BEV U.S. PC&LDT: 100% BEV
U.S. PC&LDT: 37% (incl. 14%
BEV)
2 Industrial and sites Contribute to a decarbonized Absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG 2025: -50% vs 2021 2030: 2038: carbon net zero, with
carbon footprint economy by achieving net zero emissions (tons of CO 2-eq) -75% vs 2021 single digit % compensation
Owner: Chief emissions within our activities of residual emissions vs 2021
Manufacturing Officer worldwide (scope 1 and 2) level1
Share of decarbonized electricity 2025: 50% 2030: 100% 2038: 100%
used (%)
3 Carbon footprint of the Request our suppliers and their (1) Share of Annual Purchased 2025: 2030: 2038:
supply chain: purchasing supply base by reaching into Value from suppliers with CO 2 (1) 80% Annual Purchase Value (1) 95% Annual Purchase (2) carbon net zero of the
and logistics them on a cascading basis, reduction targets compliant with from strategic (Level 1 and Value from strategic (Level supply chain with minimal
Owner: Chief Purchasing therein to support our road to the Paris Agreement Level 22) suppliers 1 and Level 22) suppliers. compensation1
& Supply Chain Officer c ina nrb oo van t n ive eu str oa lulit ty io b ny s b anri dn g bi yn g ( p2 a) r C tsO 2 emissions of purchased ( w2) it A h w COard e b mu iss sin ioe nss t aco rgm ep tsli ant ( o2 f) s - c4 o0 p% e 3o uf pC sO t2 r ee am mis sions
adopting own GHG emissions 2
defined for each new EV activities per BEV vs 2021
reduction trajectories to comply
project
or outreach the Paris Climate
Agreement
1 The achievement is conditioned by key external enablers: decarbonized energy (based on Announced Pledges Scenario from International Energy Agency), and conducive public policies for BEV (charging infrastructure, purchasing incentives)
2 Strategic “Level 1” and “Level 2” suppliers represent the most relevant strategic suppliers to Stellantis primarily based on Annual Purchased Value (APV), innovation and additional critical factors
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
CSR ISSUE/CHALLENGE VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term
(End of Strategic Plan)
4 Management of company Implement co-construction % of countries* covered by 2024: 90% 2030: 95% 2040: 100%
transformations and with trustful and transparent collective agreements
social dialogue social dialogue with
Owner: Chief employee representatives and
Human Resources & stakeholders to continuously
Transformation Officer develop and prepare the
Company for future challenges
5 Attracting and Recruit and empower talents, by Access rate to training (=No. of 2024: 95 % 2030: 100% 2040: 100%
developing all talent increasing a ‘learning enterprise employees trained/total number of
Owner: Chief culture’ and developing strategic employees)
Human Resources & skills, with the right talents in
Transformation Officer the key roles to create a highly % of technical engineering reskill/ 2024: 10% 2030: 30% 2040: 50%
committed workforce and seize upskilling
new businesses
6 Diversity and equal Reinforce diversity, equal Workforce gender balance: % 2025: >30% 2030: >35% 2040: >40%
opportunity opportunities and inclusion as women in leadership position (L1-
Owner: Chief a strength for our teams and L2-L3)
Human Resources & business by influencing the
Transformation Officer development of new ideas and
solutions that will shape the future
7 Health, safety and Create a safe and engaging Lost-time injury frequency rate 2024: <1 2030: <1 2040: <1
wellbeing in the workplace work environment promoting [LTIR /1,000,000 hwkd)]
Owner: Chief employees’ health and wellbeing
Human Resources & at work for a greater work life
Transformation Officer balance
8 Development of new Lead innovation for % of Low Emission Vehicles (below 2025: 40% 2030: 60% 2038: 100%
mobility solutions Mobility-as-a-Service to support 50g CO per kilometer) infleeted in
2
(including autonomous freedom of movement with the year for carsharing / short- and
vehicles) affordable, safe and sustainable medium-term rental / subscription /
Owners: mobility solutions long-term rental (lease)
Brand Chief Executive
% Revenues from Low Emission 2025: 20% 2030: 40% 2038: 80%
Officer, Free2move
Vehicles (below 50g CO per
2
Chief Executive Officer, kilometer) within Mobility (incl. EV
Leasys solutions + Data Service) and Rent
Chief Software Officer (carsharing/ short- and medium-
term rental / subscription / long-
Chief Engineering Officer
term rental (lease))
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
CSR ISSUE/CHALLENGE VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term
(End of Strategic Plan)
9 Vehicle and service Be Number 1 in syndicated Customer satisfaction: presence By 2024: 160 2030: 280 2040: All Stellantis brands in
quality - Customer surveys in customer satisfaction rate of Stellantis brands in the first the first quartile
satisfaction with excellent quality vehicles, quartile of the product and service
Owner: Chief Customer services and mobility, providing syndicated surveys, in the main
Experience Officer a seamless customer journey, markets. Year for base 100 is 2021,
worldwide1 target is +20% each year2
3 months in service repairs rate: 2022: -40% 2030: -75% 2040: -80%
percentage of reduction vs 2024: -55%
reference year 20213
Customer satisfaction as measured 2025: 2030: 2040:
by Net Promoter Scores (NPS) Sales: 103 Sales: 109 Sales: 114
(New Vehicle sales + After-Sales).
Year for base 100: 20214 Aftersales: 109 Aftersales: 117 Aftersales: 121
10 Vehicle safety Develop and offer safe Level of robustness of the 2025: Governance, organization 2030: External audit 2040: External audit
Owner: Chief Engineering products all around the world, global harmonized vehicle safety and processes defined and set performed each year, performed each year,
Officer continuously striving for state- organization, processes and up, external audit every 3 years, considering new considering new
of-the-art level of safety risk technical expertise, including performed by an independent technologies embedded in technologies embedded in
avoidance, as well as crash active safety, passive safety, assessment body and considering Stellantis products Stellantis products
protection for vehicle occupants cybersecurity (for its safety industry standards including
and vulnerable road users relevance), and product safety ISO26262, ISO21448, ISO21434
11 Ethics in governance and Promote a culture of transparency Number of days to provide a 2025: Personalized first answer 2030: Personalized first 2050: Personalized first
business practices and integrity by requiring our personalized first answer on reported within 1.5 days answer within 1.25 days answer within 1 day
Owner: General Counsel workforce to comply with our Code concerns regarding potential
of Conduct, applying appropriate violations of the Code of Conduct
discipline for non-compliance, and
requiring our business partners World Most Ethical (WME) 2025: Obtain recognition by 2030: Maintain WME 2050: Maintain WME status
to adopt and apply similar ethical Company status with Ethisphere5 Ethisphere as one of the World's status by Ethisphere by Ethisphere
standards and controls Most Ethical Companies as part
of their WME process
Board gender balance (% of female 2025: at least 40% of Board 2030: at least 40% of Board 2050: at least 40% of Board
directors) seats should be occupied by seats should be occupied by seats should be occupied by
women and 40% by men upon women and 40% by men upon women and 40% by men upon
expiration of current terms expiration of current terms expiration of current terms
1 For more information about Number 1 refer to 4.2.5
2 Reference scope: -Product: Things gone wrong, overall satisfaction -Service: sales, after-sales -13 markets: France, UK, Germany, Spain, Italy, Turkey, Brazil, Argentina, China, Japan, India, South Korea, U.S. -The KPI is the
average value of the four indicators (product and service) on the 13 markets
3 This KPI is calculated using the warranty database. As results are confidential, they are given using a base 100 2021
4 This KPI is based on syndicated surveys results. Base 100 2021 means that 2021 results are used as a reference and converted to 100. Future results will be compared to 2021 and presented as percentage of evolution
5
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
CSR ISSUE/CHALLENGE VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term
(End of Strategic Plan)
12 Responsible management Protect personal data by % of complaints raised by Supervisory 2022: 100% 2030: 100% 2040: 100%
of personal information processing information Authorities from customer privacy/
Owner: General Counsel confidentially and according data protection infringements
to applicable data protection handled within 1 month (and/or due
regulations date required by the Authorities)
13 Responsible information Provide accurate and comprehensive Number of convictions of non- 2022: Zero convictions 2030: Zero convictions 2050: Zero convictions
to customers information to consumers through compliance concerning: Worldwide Worldwide Worldwide
Owner: Chief Sales & responsible marketing practices in ▪ product and service information
Marketing Officer all mass market communications, and labeling
and engage them with direct ▪ marketing communications
communication only when
consumers request it
14 Wise use of materials Wise use of materials in the vehicle Percentage of Green Materials 2025: launch the first vehicles 2030: launch the first 2050: continue to reinforce
in the vehicle life cycle life cycle (including product (includes renewable and recycled containing 25% of Green vehicles containing 40% Green Materials content in
(including product recycling) is innovative with content with lower carbon footprint Materials of Green Materials the future vehicles
recycling) eco-design and leverage end- materials) on total vehicle weight
Owner: Chief Engineering of-life opportunities in a circular
Officer economy approach to reduce Availability of solutions to optimize High- 2025: at least one solution is 2030: at least one solution is 2050: all solutions
the use of natural resources and Voltage Batteries lifespan and End-of- implemented for each High- implemented for each High- implemented in all countries
the environmental impact to the Life through Repair, Remanufacturing, Voltage Battery sold in EU, NA, Voltage Battery in all countries where EVs are sold
lowest possible level Second-Life, Recycling China where EVs are sold
15 Vehicle impact on air Meaningfully reduce impact Share of ZEV* in global sales mix 2025: 2030: 2038:
quality on air quality by focusing on (focus on U.S. and EU) EU: 34% of Passenger Cars EU: 100% of Passenger Cars EU: 100% of Passenger Cars
Owner: Chief Engineering development of a wide range U.S.: 14% of Passenger Cars + U.S.: 50% of Passenger U.S.: 100% of Passenger Officer of affordable Zero Emission Light Duty Trucks Cars + Light Duty Trucks Cars + Light Duty Trucks
Vehicles (ZEV)
Percentage of nameplates with 2025: 2030: 2038:
ZEV* offering (focus on U.S. and EU: 78% of Passenger Cars EU: 100% of Passenger Cars EU: 100% of Passenger Cars
EU)
U.S.: 59% of Passenger Cars + U.S.: 100% of Passenger U.S.: 100% of Passenger
Light Duty Trucks Cars + Light Duty Trucks Cars + Light Duty Trucks
16 Optimization of material Design industrial processes Total waste normalized (kg/vehicle 2025: 40 kg/vehicle produced 2030: 36 kg/vehicle 2050: 22.5 kg/vehicle
cycles in manufacturing that allow minimal use of raw produced) produced produced
processes (including materials and ensure 100%
waste) waste recycling in local loops of Percentage of waste recovered out 2025: 84% 2030: 90% 2050: 100%
Owner: Chief circular economy of total waste generated.
Manufacturing Officer
Percentage of plants with Zero 2025: 65% 2030: 75% 2050: 100%
Waste Sent to Landfill
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
CSR ISSUE/CHALLENGE VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term
(End of Strategic Plan)
17 Control of industrial Implement state of the art technical Volatile Organic Compounds 2025: 25 g/m2 painted 2030: 25 g/m2 painted 2050: ambition of 0 g/m2
discharges and nuisances solutions to prevent industrial (VOC) emissions from paint shops painted
Owner: Chief activities from causing nuisances normalized (g/m2 painted).
Manufacturing Officer to the surrounding areas
18 Sustainable water Promote responsible water Total water withdrawn normalized 2025: 2030: 2038:
management in stewardship to strive for zero (m3/vehicle produced) 3.5 m3/vehicle produced. 3.0 m3/vehicle produced 2.0 m3/vehicle produced in
manufacturing water withdrawal by water water-stressed areas
Owner: Chief recycling in industrial activities 2050:
Manufacturing Officer
1.0 m3/vehicle produced.
19 Protection of biodiversity Ensure the development of Percentage of plants that have 2025: 60% 2030: 100% 2050: strategic partnership
Owner: Chief biodiversity on our sites by done a RENATU evaluation and are for global biodiversity
Manufacturing Officer preserving natural habitats developing biodiversity projects program.
20 Responsible purchasing Ensure selection of % Annual Purchase Value (APV) 2025: 90% of APV of direct 2030: 95% of APV of 2050: Maintain 95% of APV
practices to support the suppliers based on quality, purchased from Tier 1 suppliers material (parts) direct material (parts); for direct material; 90% APV
Company’s development competitiveness, and social, evaluated on CSR 75% of APV of indirect for indirect material
in host territories ethical and environmental material
Owner: Chief Purchasing standards, hence supporting
& Supply Chain Officer responsible economic Average CSR scores of Stellantis 2025: 15% higher 2030: keep a positive gap 2050: keep a positive gap
development in host territories Tier 1 Suppliers assessed by of 15% of 15%
independent third-party vs
average CSR scores of all
companies assessed by third party
21 Human rights in the Require, monitor and control the Average human rights scores of 2025: Increase of +2.5% vs 2030: Increase of +5% vs 2050: in top level
supply chain total respect for human rights Stellantis Tier 1 suppliers assessed score as of 01/01/21 score as of 01/01/21 performance category
Owner: Chief Purchasing along the entire global supply by independent third party
& Supply Chain Officer chain process, involving all
actors to ensure transparency
and full alignment with Human
Rights principles
22 Philanthropic actions to Driven by our societal Amount of budget for philanthropy 2023: at least €15 million 2030: at least €15 million 2038: at least €15 million
support communities commitment, we empower dedicated to philanthropy dedicated to philanthropy dedicated to philanthropy
Owner: Chief people through access to + all philanthropic projects + at least one + at least one philanthropic
Communication & CSR mobility and education focused on the new philanthropic project in project in each region and
Officer philanthropic strategy* each region* for each philanthropic focus
areas*
* Amount decided on a yearly basis, based on Stellantis current performance and general economy financial trend, and benchmark with OEM involvement in philanthropy
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
1.3 CSR governance
1.3.1 CSR POLICY
GRI 2-23
“Powered by our diversity, we lead the way the world moves”.
Stellantis corporate purpose finds its roots in the inextinguishable appetite for mobility of all human beings: our corporate
responsibility is to design and offer a range of mobility solutions which are affordable, safe, and sustainable.
In order to protect our ability to provide those solutions in the long run and create shared value for the society in which
we operate, guided by our support to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, our Corporate Social Responsibility
policy finds its roots in the United Nations Global Compact Principles and embraces:
■ a holistic approach of our environmental footprint: our actions strive to bring a tangible impact on climate change and
make a wise use of natural resources. Life cycle analysis support our decisions, notably when technology or material
related changes impact key features of our products (mass, recyclability, …)
■ a human-centered management of our activities and their social impacts: we promote the development of our teams,
we leverage on their diversity as an asset to understand citizens’ both common and specific expectations and desires all
around the world, we support economic local development through responsible purchasing practices, we encourage
social local initiatives through philanthropic actions in the communities around our locations;
■ strong ethical principles in governance and business relationships: the Stellantis governance model reflects our
commitment to a culture dedicated to integrity, responsibility and ethical behavior in all areas of our activity and along
the entire value chain. Our governance model supports our focus on creating a shared and lasting value for our
stakeholders.
For Stellantis, value creation in the long run results from economic, environmental and social performance. We protect
our sustainable development through responsible decisions and transparent business practices. Our Corporate Social
Responsibility policy is based on these fundamental principles:
■ We consider transparency as the basis of mutual trust with the society. Our responsibility is to make decisions knowing
we will be accountable for them in the future. Stellantis strives to publish clear, extensive and accurate information to
ensure our stakeholders have access to quality data. As an illustration, we obtain an independent auditor’s opinion on
the truthfulness of its content. It also feeds the public debate, for the benefit of the general interest.
■ A data-driven company, we base our decisions on facts, scientific approaches and close monitoring of our activities.
Stellantis regards its CSR policy as a collective and individual endeavor, which ensures that the principles of Corporate
Social Responsibility are embedded into each business decision and guides the Company’s approach to its strategic
challenges.
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
The CSR commitments presented in this Report are supported by accountable members of the Top Executive Team.
Our CSR commitments are part of a proactive trajectory and supported by KPIs closely monitored.
Company employees at the various level of the organization are committed to adhere to and implement this CSR roadmap,
which reflects Stellantis ambitions for the future.
1.3.2 CSR IN THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS GRI 2-9 GRI 2-10 GRI 2-11
GRI 2-12 GRI 2-14
Stellantis Corporate governance ensures that the Company is managed in the interests of its
shareholders and its main stakeholders.
The Board of Directors of Stellantis is formed by 11 members, the majority of the directors are independent. Five members
were nominated by former Groupe PSA and two of its reference shareholders (EPF/FFP and BpiFrance), while five were
Annual report and Form 20-F
nominated by FCA and reference shareholder (Exor), including the Chairman. Carlos Tavares, CEO of Stellantis and former
https://www.stellantis.com/content/dam/
CEO of PSA is also a member of the Board of Directors. Refer to the Corporate Governance section of the 2022 Annual stellantis-corporate/investors/financial-reports/
Report and Form 20-F for more details. Stellantis-NV-20221231-Annual-Report.pdf
In accordance with the articles of association of Stellantis and with the Regulations of the Board of Directors adopted Regulations of the Board of Directors
on January 17, 2021, the Board of Directors is responsible for the management and strategic direction of the Company https://www.stellantis.com/content/dam/
and has control and oversight responsibilities on the topics which impact the Company’s sustainability and long term stellantis-corporate/group/governance/corporate-
regulations/Stellantis_Board_Regulations.pdf
performance. Board structure, composition and related committees, are aligned with shareholders' long-term interests,
which include CSR related matters.
Board members have been selected based on their experience and skills, and their complementarity to form a group
bringing different perspectives to assess situations from a broad point of views, and to take into account the best interests
of stakeholders. Stellantis Board ensures a variety of viewpoints are heard and factored into responsible corporate
decision-making.
The ESG Committee
In accordance with the Company’s articles of association, the Board of Directors has adopted the Charter of the ESG Charter of the ESG Committee
Committee . https://www.stellantis.com/content/dam/stellantis-
corporate/group/governance/corporate-regulations/
The function of the ESG Committee is to assist and advise the Board of Directors and act under authority delegated by Stellantis_ESG_Committee_Charter.pdf
the Board of Directors with respect to monitoring, evaluation and reporting on the sustainable policies and practices,
management standards, strategy, performance and governance globally of the Company and its subsidiaries.
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
1.3.3 CSR EMBEDDED INTO BUSINESS: AT THE EXECUTIVE AND OPERATIONAL
GRI 2-13
LEVELS
The Stellantis CSR Global Office reports directly to the Executive Vice President (EVP) – Chief Communications and CSR
Officer, who is a member of the top executive team and reports to the Chief Executive Officer. The role of the CSR Global
Office is to:
■ ensure that Stellantis N.V. makes necessary corporate CSR public disclosures;
■ support dialogue with stakeholders (including investors) on ESG matters;
■ engage in assessment processes with CSR rating agencies;
■ watch CSR disclosure related legal requirements and stakeholders expectations, applicable to Stellantis N.V.
The Stellantis CSR Global Office oversees a CSR network composed of subject matter experts: the CSR Champions and
CSR Correspondents, who represent the global functions of the Company.
The CSR Champions work to ensure that the CSR issues under their responsibility are considered appropriately in the
decisions of their Division. They:
■ directly report to the relevant EVP;
■ propose the CSR Ambition and the CSR Targets to the EVP for approval;
■ organize, monitor and consolidate the CSR commitments and key messages;
■ ensure the Company’s CSR results with improvement actions align with stakeholders’ expectations.
The CSR Correspondents focus on proper and reliable disclosure of qualitative and quantitative information for the CSR
issues under their responsibility. They:
■ manage their network of expert contributors to collect and consolidate facts and figures covering the reporting scope;
■ deliver their sections of the CSR disclosures;
■ support the CSR Global Office when answering external requests from stakeholders, particularly ESG rating agencies;
■ propose internally actions to improve performance based on weaknesses identified with the support of the CSR Global
Office.
The EVPs play a key role in the Company’s CSR roadmap: they validate the medium and long-term CSR visions, ambitions
and targets for the CSR issues that are under their responsibility and are responsible for the achievements.
Top Management incentives are set to align as much as possible with the diverse stakeholders’ interests.
EULAV
GNITSAL
DNA
DERAHS
GNITAERC
:ECNANREVOG
DNA
LEDOM
SSENISUB
1
THE CSR NETWORK 1 Vehicle CO emissions
2
2 Industrial and sites carbon footprint
Carbon footprint of the supply chain:
3
purchasing and logistics
CEO
4 Management of Company
transformation and social dialogue
5
Attracting and developing all talent
6 Diversity and equal opportunity
EVPs EVP - Chief Communications 7 Health, safety and well-being in the
workplace
For each CSR issues
Development of new mobility
8
1 4 8 11 14 20 Champions solutions (including autonomous
vehicles)
2 5 9 12 15 21 CSR Global Office
9 Vehicle and service quality -
3 6 10 13 16 22 customer satisfaction
Correspondents
7 17 10 Vehicle safety
18 Ethics in governance and business
11
19 Contributors practices
CSR Network 12 Responsible management of personal
information
13 Responsible information to customers
Operational Functions
Wise use of materials in the vehicle
14
life cycle (including product recycling)
15 Vehicle impact on air quality
Optimization of material cycles in
16 manufacturing processes (including
waste)
Control of industrial discharge and
17
nuisances
18 Sustainable water management in
manufacturing
19 Protection of biodiversity
20 Responsible purchasing practices to
support the Company’s development
in host territories
21 Human rights in the supply chain
22 Philanthropic actions to support
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2 BRINGING A TANGIBLE IMPACT
ON CLIMATE CHANGE - CLIMATE REPORT
2.1 CONTEXT AND STELLANTIS POSITION 58
2.2 FORWARD-LOOKING CLIMATE VISION AND TARGETS 62
2.3 IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF CLIMATE RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES 65
2.3.1 climate related risks and opportunities throughout the organization and across the value chain 70
2.3.2 Resilience strategy built with climate-related scenarios 78
2.3.3 Climate embedded into Business Planning via the use of an internal price of carbon 79
2.4 CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND DECISION BODIES TO LEAD ACTIONS 80
2.4.1 Supervisory bodies: striving for long-term climate resilience 80
2.4.2 Executive bodies: putting climate responsibility as a central theme in executive decision-making 81
2.4.3 Embedding climate across various management levels 84
2.5 VEHICLE CO EMISSIONS 85 2
2.5.1 Policies to execute the strategy 85
2.5.2 Organization and resources 85
2.5.3 Main initiatives, achievements and results 87
2.5.4 Detailed key performance indicators 105
2.6 INDUSTRIAL AND SITES CARBON FOOTPRINT 108
2.6.1 Policies to execute the strategy 108
2.6.2 Organization and resources 110
2.6.3 Main initiatives, achievements and results 111
2.6.4 Detailed key performance indicators 123
2.7 CARBON FOOTPRINT OF THE SUPPLY CHAIN: PURCHASING AND LOGISTICS 125
2.7.1 Policies to execute the strategy 125
2.7.2 Organization and resources 127
2.7.3 Main initiatives, achievements and results 128
2.7.4 Detailed key performance indicators 133
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
STELLANTIS’ CSR MACRO-RISK PILLAR I. BRINGING A TANGIBLE IMPACT ON CLIMATE CHANGE Stellantis is committed to
bring a tangible impact on
In the World Economic Forum “2021 Risk Report”, climate was declared a major and imminent risk to the global economy,
climate change
having wide environmental impacts, and increasing economic and societal divisions, inside countries and between regions.
Companies are key players to introduce solutions and Stellantis is committed to bring a tangible impact on climate change.
Stellantis has concerns that the climate emergency may be a threat to the operations of industrial and global companies like
ours. Likewise, Stellantis is concerned that if not enough is done to correct the current climate situation, the rise in temperatures
might drastically affect the environment including water, air and biodiversity, which may alter the ability to sustain human
activities. Challenging dialogues with stakeholders, such as investors, institutions, and Non-Governmental Organizations
(NGOs), among others, allow the Company to share its vision of carbon neutrality, its targets, its initiatives and solutions.
More than ever, to address the United Nations 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and to meet the challenge of
drastically reducing its carbon footprint, Stellantis is rethinking its value creation model to anticipate major trends.
Climate change requires a global response, which for Stellantis includes designing vehicles with lower CO-eq emissions,
2
reducing the carbon impact of manufacturing facilities, logistics and purchasing and putting measures in place to offset
any remaining carbon impact. Stellantis views it as an opportunity to be even more agile to face the challenges and to
create the future of mobility, allowing for freedom of movement with reduced or no carbon emissions.
To demonstrate its tangible commitments for a low-carbon economy, Stellantis strengthened its climate governance
by having climate change concern embedded in its decision-making processes and developed a holistic and offensive
strategy with the goal to reduce CO-eq emissions across its entire value chain. 2
Stellantis also considers that growing awareness about upcoming climate changes for each and every individual is of the
utmost importance. In this respect, Stellantis is providing a free and easy access to a web-based Climate School with more than
ten hours of training to its employees, in order for them to better understand the stakes and to get prepared for the necessary
sustainable transformation of their activity. As of end 2022, more than 7,300 cumulated hours of training have been taken.
2.1 Context and Stellantis position
Stellantis has a holistic approach to climate change.
Given its main sources of greenhouse gas emissions, the Stellantis decarbonization strategy is threefold:
1. Cutting CO vehicle emissions For more information refer to 2.5
2
2. Moving forward into a carbon-efficient production system For more information refer to 2.6
3. Improving the environmental performance of the supply chain For more information refer to 2.7
The subsequent sections of this Climate Report detail the strategy implemented by Stellantis including the governance and
actions to achieve the targets, following the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
CSR issue/challenge #1: Vehicle CO 2 emissions 1 Vehicle CO 2 emissions
Based on an assessment of more than 14,000 scientific publications, the Intergovernmental Panel of Climate Change
(IPCC) 2021 report on the physical science of climate change demonstrates that human activities have warmed our planet’s
atmosphere faster than anything people have experienced for at least 2000 years.
The report also answers important questions about how greenhouse gas emissions and other pollutants are changing our
climate. It sheds light on how plants, soil and the oceans store and release carbon, how the global climate is responding
to human influence, and what we may fear about increasing global warming: a water cycle of increasingly variable, lasting
changes in ocean and sea levels caused by the melting of frozen spaces on the planet, and more generally, extreme
weather and climate events.
By highlighting the way future human activities change, our climate will affect the planet and its habitants. This report
also highlights the importance of the choices we all make today. The recommendations from the IPCC report should be
taken into account while implementing our strategies.
In its Vision 2050 report published in 2020, the International Council on Clean Transportation (ICCT) projected that CO 2-eq International Council on Clean
emissions from transportation would rise from 10.9 Gt in 2015 to 11.9 Gt in 2019–2022. Forty-six percent of those global Transportation (ICCT)
transportation CO emissions come from the four largest vehicle markets: U.S., China, EU and India. https://theicct.org/sites/default/files/publications/
2 ICCT_Vision2050_sept2020.pdf
Our industry has a role in the global effort to limit the rise of temperatures to 1.5 degrees. To achieve this effort, Stellantis is
adapting its business model and launching new technologies in order to meet its milestones and objectives while satisfying
consumer demands for improved fuel economy and lower CO-eq emissions in several markets. Our success depends on 2
our ability to meet regulatory emissions requirements while at the same time seek to meet customer expectations for
access to safe, sustainable and affordable mobility solutions. The electrification of vehicles is one of the key actions by
which we are supporting the transition to a decarbonized economy while working toward carbon neutrality.
Company’s public position
Stellantis believes it has an ethical responsibility to offer customers affordable mobility solutions that are sustainable for
the planet and its citizens.
Stellantis is determined to be compliant with applicable GHG regulations around the globe. This has been demonstrated
since the creation of Stellantis with a fast-growing LEV line-up and sales mix, aiming at an ambitious position in the
industry in terms of low CO emissions.
2
This determination has been further strengthened through its Dare Forward 2030 plan published on March 1, 2022, which
includes an accelerated roll-out of BEVs worldwide and the target of reducing by 2030 its global carbon footprint by 50% Stellantis strategic plan
https://www.stellantis.com/content/dam/
tons CO eq/veh versus 2021, on the path to its commitment to achieve carbon net zero in 2038 with a single-digit percent
2- stellantis-corporate/investors/events/strategic-
compensation . plan-2030/2022_03_01_Strategic_Plan.pdf
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
Stellantis believes that the renewed global ambitions to tackle climate change, including the Paris Agreement and the
EU and U.S. objectives for carbon neutrality by 2050, could be achieved if the ecosystem adapts. Transition to low CO
2
transport and mobility at an increased pace requires policy makers to develop and implement a carefully coordinated
plan that takes into account the countervailing economic and social challenges associated with this rapid transition. It
also requires public authorities to actively support the development of an affordable and sustainable mobility ecosystem
through the wise use of the regulatory framework and financial tools and by ensuring the contribution of all sectors and
green energy sources of all kinds - in particular the energy sector that should provide green electricity. The availability
of a convenient and widespread vehicle recharging and fast charging infrastructure will play a crucial role and must be
facilitated.
CSR issue/challenge #2: Industrial and site carbon footprint 2 Industrial and sites carbon footprint
Although the emissions associated with fuel and electricity consumption in our manufacturing and other facilities
represents a small part, around 1%, of the Company’s overall carbon footprint, we are committed to reducing carbon
emissions from industrial operations and non-manufacturing facilities. We regard this effort as an important factor in
tackling climate change. As far as vehicle manufacturing is concerned, the major cause of greenhouse gas emissions is
energy consumption. To reduce our impact on climate, Stellantis acts on several levers such as optimizing the energy
efficiency of manufacturing processes, using electricity derived from carbon-free renewable sources and adopting more
efficient technologies.
Company’s public position
At Stellantis, we are committed to contributing to a decarbonized economy by engaging our talented teams and assets
on the road to the world carbon neutrality. The Company has been rolling out a process for controlling its environmental
impact and ensuring continuous improvement. Based on our experience (vast majority of our plants are, or are becoming
ISO 14001-certified, and the environmental footprint of its manufacturing operations being progressively reduced); we
are convinced that the energy transition requires that all actors of the economic ecosystem join forces. Manufacturing
companies need to find affordable and available carbon free energy sources to implement their decarbonization pathway.
We also believe solutions need to continue to be found or consolidated: we encourage governments to support research
and development efforts related to carbon capture and storage technologies that should contribute to decarbonization.
CSR issue/challenge #3: Carbon footprint of the supply chain: purchasing and logistics 3 Carbon footprint of the supply chain:
purchasing and logistics
In addition to emissions from vehicles and manufacturing, there are significant emissions that come from outside the
organization. These additional emissions are connected with our activities. The CO emissions related to the purchase of
2
goods for use in our products represents more than 10% of the overall European carbon footprint of the Company while
inbound and outbound transportation accounts for about 1%.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
We are committed to contributing to a decarbonized economy by following the principles of the Paris Agreement.
We engage in this journey with our supply base to support our leadership in clean and advanced technologies for mobility
solutions. We also ask them to commit to the same objectives of reducing their impact on the climate.
Stellantis works to reduce the CO emissions associated with logistics as the environmental impact of inbound and
2
outbound transportation is far-reaching, ranging from local impact, such as sound, air pollution, etc., to global warming.
The challenge is to optimize transport plans, loads and volumes and the use of multimodal transport.
Company’s public position
Stellantis supports the decarbonization development of suppliers in the automotive industry. This goal is determined as
one of the strategic drivers in the partnership with our suppliers, driven by the fact that decarbonization will be a key
factor of competitiveness and long-term commitment between Stellantis and its supply base. Therefore, we tackle this
goal with several activities in our direct relationship with our supply base. Together with our suppliers, we aim to reduce
CO emissions in the supply chain through for example, the design and development of parts and services, increasing
2
the usage of recycled material and recyclability. The monitoring of CO emissions of our suppliers is supported by various
2
external partners, like the CDP Supply Chain Module and EcoVadis . For more information refer to 2.7.3.2
We are also engaged in several organized initiatives. These include local and wider scale initiatives of the automotive
industry, amongst them several in Europe and North America at a national (PFA; AIAG; VDA; ANFIA) and regional level (by
the ARIAs, automotive competitiveness clusters, regional automotive industry associations; ACEA) with public authorities
and the administration . For more information refer to 7.1.6
The Global Purchasing and Supply Chain Division supplements this automotive industry network and its ecosystem by
appointing regional leadership in each manufacturing cluster around the world.
Stellantis supports both carbon net zero objectives as well as the need for a level environmental playing field.
In the area of transport and logistics Stellantis urges public authorities to increase and improve multimodal transport
solutions as this could provide a low carbon intensive access to and from Stellantis facilities worldwide. With regard to
road transport Stellantis welcomes policies and innovative solutions supporting efficient use of roads, e.g., high-capacity
transport such as giga-liners, enabling freight transport to reduce GHG emissions. A rapid deployment of charging and
refueling infrastructure for alternatively powered heavy duty vehicles is essential to reducing CO emissions in road
2
transport.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.2 Forward-looking Climate vision and targets
TCFD.Mc GRI 3-3
CSR ISSUE/
CHALLENGE
VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT RESULTS
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term 2022 2021 (End of Strategic Plan)
Carbon footprint Contribute to a global GHG emissions reduction 2023: targets for 2030: reduce GHG 2038: carbon net 2022 Stellantis 2021 Stellantis
reduction in the whole carbon neutrality, with an (%) (absolute GWP in vehicle programs emissions by 50% vs zero, with single digit global carbon baseline global carbon
value chain ambitious carbon footprint scope 1 and 2, intensity under development 2021 level % compensation of footprint: 450.6 footprint: 527.2 million
Owner: Chief Planning reduction roadmap GWP (per veh) for scope 3 consistent with -50% residual emissions vs million tons CO 2-eq tons CO 2-eq
Officer - 1.5°C scenario - Global) 2030 objective 2021 level1 77.1 tons CO-eq/veh 80.2 tons CO eq/veh
2 2-
1 Vehicle CO 2 Propose a wide range Percentage of nameplates 2025: 2030: 2038: EU PC: 48% LEV EU PC: 40% LEV
emissions of Low Carbon mobility with LEV offering (focus EU Passenger Cars EU PC: EU PC: 100% (14% BEV) (15% BEV)
Owner: Chief devices, rapidly available on U.S. and EU) (PC): 96% 100% nameplates nameplates with BEV U.S. PC & LDT: 14% U.S. PC & LDT: 10%
Planning Officer in countries of operations, U.S. PC & Light Duty with BEV offering offering LEV LEV
to contribute to the race
Trucks (LDT): 91% U.S. PC & LDT : 100% U.S. PC & LDT: 100%
to carbon neutrality, by
nameplates with BEV nameplates with BEV
leading CO emissions 2 offering offering
reduction
Share of LEV in global 2025: 2030: 2038: EU PC: 18.3% LEV EU PC: 12.8% LEV
sales mix (focus on U.S. EU PC: 44% EU PC: 100% BEV EU PC: 100% BEV (11.2% BEV) (8% BEV)
and EU). (incl. 34% BEV) U.S. PC&LDT: 50% U.S. PC&LDT: 100% U.S. PC& LDT: 4.9% U.S. PC&LDT: 3.4%
U.S. PC&LDT: 37% BEV BEV LEV LEV
(incl. 14% BEV)
2 Industrial and sites Contribute to a Absolute scope 1 and 2 2025: 2030: 2038: carbon net 2022: 3,443,124 tons 2021: 3,874,486 tons
carbon footprint decarbonized economy GHG emissions (tons of -50% vs 2021 -75% vs 2021 zero, with single digit of CO 2-eq of CO 2-eq
Owner: Chief by achieving net zero CO 2-eq) % compensation of
Manufacturing emissions within our residual emissions vs
Officer activities worldwide 2021 level1
(scope 1 and 2)
Share of decarbonized 2025: 50% 2030: 100% 2038: 100% 2022: 55% 2021: 45%
electricity used (%)
3 Carbon footprint of Request our suppliers and (1) Share of Annual 2025: 2030: 2038: More than 65% More than 55% of
the supply chain: their supply base by reaching Purchased Value from (1) 80% Annual (1) 95% Annual of strategic (Level strategic (Level 1 and
purchasing and into them on a cascading suppliers with CO 2 Purchase Value from Purchase Value from 1 and Level 22) Level 22) suppliers
logistics basis, therein to support our reduction targets strategic (Level 1 and strategic (Level 1 and suppliers committed committed to comply
Owner: Chief road to carbon neutrality by compliant with the Paris Level 22) suppliers Level 22) suppliers to comply with the with the Paris
Purchasing & Supply bringing innovative solutions Agreement (2) Award business (2) -40% of CO (2) carbon net Paris Agreement Agreement
Chain Officer a Gn Hd G b ey m a id so sip ot nin sg r eo dw un ct ion ( p2 u) r C chO a2 se em d i pss ai ro tn s s of c eo mm isp sl ii oa nn t t aw rgit eh t sC O 2 e um psis trs eio an ms ao cf t s ivc io2 tip ee s 3 z cher ao in o wf t ith he msu inp ip mly a l
trajectories to comply or
defined for each new per BEV vs 2021 compensation1
outreach the Paris Climate
EV project
Agreement
1
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
A net zero commitment to support the planet’s carbon neutrality
Stellantis targets to become carbon net zero on the whole value chain by 2038, with single digit percent compensation
of residual emissions versus 2021 level.
STELLANTIS CARBON NET-ZERO ROADMAP
Key external enablers for
this roadmap are:
2021 2025 2030 2038
▪ Decarbonized energy (based on
Base year
-50%*tCO2 eq/veh CARBON NET ZERO Announced Pledges Scenario
from International Energy
Agency)
▪ Conductive public policies for
BEV (charging infrastructure,
purchasing incentives)
-50%* -75%*
tCO2 absolute tCO2 absolute
50% decarbonized
electricity used
-50%*tCO2 eq/veh
Sales Sales Sales
EU PC: 44% LEV EU PC: 100% BEV EU PC: 100% BEV
US PC&LDT: 37% LEV US PC&LDT: 50% BEV US PC&LDT: 100% BEV
-40% of CO2 emissions
of Scope 3 upstream per BEV*
More than-90%* tCO2 eq/veh
2 &
1
sepocS
3
epocS
Across our entire with single digit %
value chain compensation
100% decarbonized
electricity used
Across our entire value chain
Compensation of all residual
emissions
* Reduction vs 2021 base year
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
In order to contribute to the collective global carbon neutrality objective in the most efficient way, Stellantis strategy is Stellantis targets to reduce its
based on energy consumption reduction first, then carbon footprint reduction at the maximum, before balancing residual carbon footprint per
GHG emissions with carbon removal and additional other compensation solutions if relevant. -50%
To achieve this target, Stellantis has defined a comprehensive, long-term, carbon net zero roadmap, including an tCO eq/veh
2
intermediate target of -50% reduction by 2030 versus 2021, based on the following key milestones: in 2030 vs 2021
■ by 2030, Stellantis targets to reduce GHG emissions by -75% on industrial sites and real estate (scope 1 and 2 of GHG
protocol) and to use 100% of decarbonized electricity;
■ Stellantis continues to reduce the Well-to-Wheel CO 2 emissions of its vehicles, due to electrification roadmap,
improvement of BEV efficiencies and fuel consumption of remaining ICE vehicles (scope 3 Use of sold products of GHG
protocol). By 2030, Stellantis intends to sell 100% BEV for passenger cars in Europe and 50% BEV for passenger cars
and light-duty trucks in the U.S.;
■ Stellantis has actively engaged with its suppliers to reduce the carbon footprint of purchased parts, especially led by
an objective of cutting by 40% the carbon footprint of purchased parts of BEV by 2030 (scope 3 Purchased goods and
services of GHG protocol). This will allow to keep under control the share of carbon footprint of battery and components
production in the context of a global footprint reduction thanks to electrification.
These objectives can be reached under the condition that the ecosystem adapts at the right pace and is conducive to
electrification (public policies, charging infrastructure, decarbonized electricity, etc.).
Considering regulatory orientations are still pending on carbon removal questions, Stellantis has engaged an
in-depth screening of mature and emerging technologies - including Spot Source Capture, Direct Air/Ocean Capture,
Bio Capture and Storage, Mineral Storage, etc. - to assess the most reliable and impactful carbon removal and storage
technologies.
Key orientations on this topic are planned to be submitted to the Strategy Council consistently with the timeline of
decisions to be made for the Stellantis carbon net zero roadmap.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
Stellantis is computing its carbon footprint in accordance with Green House Gas Protocol and consistently with ISO 14064
standard. Targets - covering absolute GHG emissions from scopes 1 and 2 and Well-to-Wheel CO emissions from scope 3
2
in intensity - are established referring to the available Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi) methodology at the time of
roadmap definition, based on Sector Decarbonization Approach for the transport sector. The 2030 intermediate targets
are in line with the Paris Agreement and 1.5°C scenario.
Consistency of Stellantis approach with SBTi recommendations has been verified by EcoAct in 2022, a specialized firm in
environmental analysis and greenhouse gas diagnostics.
The targets are defined assuming no change in the lifetime mileage of vehicles over the years, nevertheless, we will also
work on the improvement of the durability of our vehicles.
Impacts on other environmental criteria of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) are also taken into consideration . For more information refer to 6.1.7
2.3 Identification and management of climate risks
and opportunities
The automobile industry is facing profound economic, regulatory, environmental and societal challenges, driven by the
SASB-410a.3 GRI 302-2
fight against climate change. This translates into increasing pressure from all stakeholders (financial players, customers,
regulators, civil society, NGOs and suppliers). In this context, the identification and the management of climate-related
risks and opportunities is a key approach for Stellantis to work towards business sustainability.
Managing those risks and opportunities leads Stellantis to define a clear decarbonization strategy, ambitious objectives
and efficient enablers.
Given its determination to embed CSR in its decisions and activities, climate risks are managed by specific strategic actions
and resources within the area of expertise required. Risk management is integrated at the heart of the strategy across the
organization, from the decision-making bodies to the operational entities.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
Climate leadership of Stellantis: ambition and strategy
CLIMATE CHANGE RISK AND OPPORTUNITIES
OUR IDENTIFIED CLIMATE RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
TRANSITIONAL OPPORTUNITIES Transitional RISKS Physical
New Mobility Vehicle complexity Policy and legal Social Supply chain
Innovation Vertical Integration Technology Reputation Facilities
Resource efficiency Market Scarcity
OUR VISION FOR CLIMATE
Contribute to a global carbon neutrality, with an ambitious carbon footprint reduction roadmap
OUR CLIMATE STRATEGY OUR OBJECTIVES FOR 2038 OUR ENABLERS
Innovation breakthroughs for low-carbon carbon net zero of the whole value chain (scope Efficient governance with clear responsibilities
technologies 1, 2 and 3) with single digit % compensation of
Solid climate-related risk management with
residual emissions versus 2021 level
Strategic partnerships to master the EV value scenario analysis
chain 100% nameplates with BEV offering in
Transparent climate monitoring with ambitious
Europe** and U.S.***
New mobility solutions expansion metrics and targets
100% BEV sales in Europe** and 100% BEV
Close collaboration and innovation with Focused research and development/innovation
sales in U.S.***
stakeholders across the supply chain investments
(purchasing and logistics) carbon net zero of the supply chain with
Continuous workforce skill improvement policy
minimal compensation
Carbon / energy-efficient and resilient
Benchmark and sharing best practices to
production assets (Stellantis Production Way Absolute greenhouse gas emissions reduced
improve overall consumption by plants
roadmap) by more than 90% for scope 1 and 2
* Commitments, targets and conditions are detailed in 2.2
** For passenger cars
*** For passenger cars and light-duty trucks
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
Carbon footprint TCFD.Mb
In order to manage its carbon footprint, Stellantis annually quantifies the total CO equivalent of greenhouse gases,
2
primarily CO, emitted from its activities over the whole life cycle of its automotive products, taking into account its global
2
activity and the real-life emissions of the vehicles.
The table below sums up the assessment of global Stellantis emissions of CO equivalent from 2021, first year of operation
2
of Stellantis.
Global Stellantis carbon footprint
Avoided emissions
-3.1
tons
2022 1.5
Scope 1 (million tons CO2-eq) of CO 2-eq
2021 1.7
2022 1.9 per vehicle in 2022 vs 2021
Scope 2* (million tons CO2-eq)
2021 2.2
2022 447.2
Scope 3 (million tons CO2-eq)
2021 523.3
2022 450.6 Total emissions
(million tons CO2-eq)
2021 527.2
*market-based
TOTAL EMISSIONS 77.1 tons CO2-eq/veh 2022
PER VEHICLE SOLD 80.2 tons CO2-eq/veh 2021
2022 global carbon footprint has reduced by 14.5% in absolute - driven by lower volumes - and by 3.8% in intensity
(tons of CO-eq/veh) compared to 2021, achieving a first step towards 2030 objective (-50% tons of CO-eq/veh).
2 2
Efficiency improvement of vehicles and increase of electrification mix allows to avoid 3.1 tons of CO-eq emissions per
2
vehicle sold during its life cycle in 2022 against 2021.
TROPER
ETAMILC
- EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
Global 2022 Stellantis carbon footprint: main emission items GRI 302-2
UPSTREAM ACTIVITIES COMPANY ACTIVITIES DOWNSTREAM ACTIVITIES
SCOPE 3 (Indirect emissions) SCOPE 1 AND 2 (Direct and indirect emissions) SCOPE 3 (Indirect emissions)
PURCHASING BUILDING PERFORMANCE USE OF VEHICLES SOLD (WtW*)
38.8 M tons CO -eq (8.6%) 3.4 M tons CO -eq (0.8%) 395.5 M tons CO -eq (87.8%)
2 2 2
Fuel and electricity production (WtT*) 57.8 M tons of CO-eq (12.8%)
Extraction of materials and production of 2
parts used by Stellantis for its business Fuel and electricity consumption in plants Exhaust emissions (TtW*) 337.7 M tons of CO 2-eq (75%) refer to 2.5
refer to 2.7 0.70%
VEHICLE MAINTENANCE
tertiary sites 8.4 M tons CO -eq (1.9%) UPSTREAM TRANSPORT 2
0.04%
1,4 M tons CO -eq (0.3%) Extraction of materials and production of spare parts refer to 2.5
2
dealership networks and warehouses PRODUCT END-OF-LIFE
Transport of materials and parts to
Stellantis plants refer to 2.7 0.02% 2.0 M tons CO -eq (0.4%)
2
Recovery and recycling of end-of-life vehicles refer to 6.1
WORK-RELATED TRAVELS
DOWNSTREAM TRANSPORT
0,03 M tons CO -eq (0.01%)
2 1.1 M tons CO -eq (0.2%)
2
Movement of employees Transport of produced vehicles to retail
refer to 2.7 refer to 2.5 outlets for sale refer to 2.7
* WtW= Well-to-Wheel WtT= Well-to-Tank TtW= Tank-to-Wheel
The steps taken by Stellantis to reduce the emissions of these emission sources are described in the sections indicated.
This assessment considers the following global carbon footprints:
For Detailed comparison of 2022 and 2021
emission items refer to 2.5.4.3
■ UPSTREAM ACTIVITIES including
● all component materials of vehicles manufactured in 2022 from extraction to molding and assembly on the vehicle,
using life cycle analysis databases
● the upstream transport For more information refer to 2.7
● the work-related travel air trips . For more information refer to 2.7
● Car trips being made with company cars are accounted through the use of Stellantis vehicles in Scope 3 downstream
activities.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
■ COMPANY ACTIVITIES include energy consumption in:
● manufacturing plants (assembly plants or components factories)
● tertiary sites
● dealership networks
They are derived from GHG (greenhouse gas) assessments carried out at Stellantis plants, tertiary sites and Company-owned
dealership network . For more information refer to 2.6
■ DOWNSTREAM ACTIVITIES including:
● Tank-to-Wheel CO 2 emissions: use of vehicles sold in 2022 according to the CO 2 emissions data for each vehicle sold
and the following operating criteria:
■ Mileage
• For North America: 225,865 miles (363,643 km) for Passenger Cars and Light Duty Trucks, and 150,000 miles
(241,500 km) for Heavy Duty Trucks over 15 years, consistent with EPA Green House Gas regulation
• For Europe and other regions: 50,000 km for micromobility devices, 225,000 km for Passenger Cars and
300,000 km for Light Commercial vehicles over 15 years
■ Real-life consumption assumptions based on regional monitoring, notably for ICE vehicles: +20% against WLTP
regulatory CO emission value for Europe and +30% against unadjusted EPA fuel Consumption (consistent with 2
EPA label value) for North America
● Well-to-Tank CO 2 emissions, corresponding to the impact of the production of:
■ the fuels used by conventional vehicles, evaluated using Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) databases;
■ the electricity used by the electrified vehicles, evaluated based on actuals and forecasts from LCA databases and
International Energy Agency scenarios per region
● the production of spare parts used for the maintenance of the cars, using LCA databases
● the vehicle end-of-life modelled on current processes
● the downstream transport . For more information refer to 2.7
Other subcategories of GHG protocol (such as employee commuting, waste generated in operations, etc.) – have an
impact of less than 1% according to our first assessment. A detailed analysis is on-going on those activities as well as
on emissions from purchased services. These activities are not captured in the 2021 & 2022 disclosure.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.3.1 CLIMATE RELATED RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES THROUGHOUT Climate change appears as one
THE ORGANIZATION AND ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN of the top macro-risks on the
Stellantis materiality matrix
On the Stellantis materiality matrix, climate change appears as one of the top macro-risks the Company has to tackle.
It requires a global and comprehensive response supporting the attainment of our carbon-neutrality target in the
long-term as well as our intermediate targets in the short- to medium-term. A clear and transparent acknowledgement
of the risks and issues related to climate change is therefore vital for Stellantis to work towards sustainability.
2.3.1.1 Extensive assessment of climate risks TCFD.Ra TCFD.Rb TCFD.Rc
As part of its Risk Management System, Stellantis uses its company-wide risk analysis framework to assess, manage and
report climate-related physical and transition risks and opportunities . Given their potential impact on the Company’s For more information refer to 1.2.3
situation, the two climate-related risks, ‘natural hazards’ and ‘global carbon footprint’, are considered as top risks and
presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
2.3.1.2 Sowing the seeds of the carbon-neutral future opens new business opportunities
In accordance with the TCFD recommendations, our climate-related risk assessment sorts risks into two categories: TCFD.Sa TCFD.Sb GRI 3-3
transition risks and physical risks. The assessment of transition climate-related risks considers risks related to the
current and emerging regulation, technology risks, legal risks, market risks and reputation risks. As for the assessment
of physical climate-related risks, it considers both acute risks from extreme weather conditions such as floods or
wildfires and chronic risks such as impacts of rising temperatures and accelerating loss of biodiversity.
While the climate crisis generates transition and physical risks, Stellantis also considers it as an opportunity. The
Company’s agility enables it to focus on the most relevant market stakes and to rapidly implement decisions made
to adapt to evolving mobility expectations. New “low-carbon” mobility solutions and urban mobility markets are
becoming significant sources of revenue. Along with operational efficiency and technological innovation, they
enhance the leadership and value of Stellantis.
The process used to assess and manage climate-related opportunities is identical to the one used to manage climate-
related risks, in the sense that they are embedded within the Company’s business lines, with entities managing specific
climate issues that are within their area of expertise.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
RISK #1: MORE STRINGENT CO EMISSIONS REGULATIONS THRESHOLDS FOR VEHICLE MANUFACTURERS
2
Type of risk: Transition Risk: Policy & Legal
Timeframe: Short-term (until 2025)
Risk Opportunities
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION STRATEGY ADDITIONAL OPPORTUNITIES
The number, scope and ambition of regulatory requirements Developing an increasingly low carbon offerings of products and Reducing vehicle complexity. Focusing on development of
regarding greenhouse gas emissions are expected to increase services relying on an ambitious electrification roadmap. environmentally friendly technologies that can be rolled out
significantly in the future. This concerns vehicle fuel efficiency Refer to section 2.5.3 on a large scale, allow product design simplification as well as
regulations and emissions standards as well as regulations Investing in process improvements to transform production purchasing and manufacturing optimization (footprint, logistics,
that apply to Stellantis’ production facilities and to most of its locations in a more efficient and sustainable condition to make inventories, etc.). This is a strong enabler for Stellantis powertrain
suppliers. A failure to comply may lead to fines, vehicle recalls, them less energy-intensive and increase the renewable energy and vehicle complexity reduction.
the suspension of sales and may adversely affect Stellantis’ usage. Associating suppliers to decarbonized energy. Using CO-eq
2
reputation. Stellantis takes this risk into account because the Refer to section 2.6 “cradle-to gate” performance as a criterion for the business
Company sells vehicles in countries where regulations on fuel Engaging suppliers on climate-related issues to avoid supply award and requesting key suppliers to commit to CO reduction
2
consumption are severe. chain disruptions due to more stringent emissions regulations. trajectory compliant with Paris Agreement brings a significant
Refer to section 2.7.3.1 improvement to Stellantis environmental targets achievement
POTENTIAL IMPACT Relying on a strong vertical integration strategy to reduce the Refer to Section 2.7.3.2
Company’s dependency on suppliers and to reduce the risk of
Most of CO-related regulations worldwide include fines payment Increasing business attractiveness. Stellantis considers complying
2 supply chain disruptions or cost increases due to emissions-
clause in case of noncompliance - see examples of assessment for with European Taxonomy regulation by properly disclosing the
related regulations.
Stellantis below the table. share of Taxonomy-aligned turnover and expenditures (capital
Refer to section 2.5.3.2.2
and operational) will provide several opportunities, such as
Stellantis must devote financial and management resources,
demonstrating to customers, media and financial markets our
vehicle engineering and design attention, to these legal
incremental contribution to sustainable mobility and confirming
requirements. Emissions standards applying to production
our attractiveness as taxonomy will allow comparison between
facilities may require investments to upgrade facilities, thus
companies of the same sector regarding their share of increasing operating costs. Because these regulations drive
Taxonomy-aligned activities. The Company will have access to
investors to monitor the carbon intensity of their asset
new financial instruments at favorable conditions, such as EU
portfolios, a failure to comply may have risk profile impacts and
Green bonds.
increase credit costs. A failure by suppliers to meet applicable
environmental laws or regulations may lead to a disruption of
Stellantis’ supply chain or to raw materials and components price
increases2.
3 If no CO2 improvements were brought to 2022 Passenger Cars European fleet, disregarding the benefit of eco-innovation technologies, the theoretical fine incurred in 2025 would be close to €1.3 billion (average 105.5g
versus 98g estimated 2025 Stellantis target * 1.8 million vehicles* €95/g) - according to regulation UE 2019/631; In US, considering only NHTSA CAFE regulation for Light Duty Fleet, disregarding any credits banking and
off-cycle technology benefit, the theoretical fine incurred in 2025 for a fleet with the same performance as in 2021 would be close to $2.5 Billion (average 28mpg vs 38mpg estimated 2025 Stellantis target * 1.7 million
vehicles *15$ per 0.1mpg) - according to regulations 49 CFR 531, 49 CFR 533 (Targets) and 49 CFR 578.6 (h) (2) (Penalties)
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
RISK #2: IMPACTS ON THE BUSINESS MODEL OF THE TRANSITION TO LOW CARBON TECHNOLOGIES
Type of risk: Transition Risk: Technological
Timeframe: Short-term (until 2025)
Risk Opportunities
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION STRATEGY ADDITIONAL OPPORTUNITIES
The registration of LEVs is increasing sharply and is expected to Speeding up the electrification of the car line in all segments. Selling highly efficient LEVs to gain a competitive advantage.
keep growing. Stellantis aims to over perform the market with its LEV sales, Increased battery longevity and efficiency would increase EV
anticipating LEV pricing improvements due to a reduced Total range and, in turn, the demand for these vehicles.
POTENTIAL IMPACT Cost of Ownership. Refer to section 2.5.3.2.4
Refer to section 2.5.3.2
The transition to low carbon technologies may lead to an
increase in vehicle price and have a negative impact on the Selling batteries to third parties. Our vertical integration
demand addressed by the company’s products, especially Gaining control over EV components supply chain to maintain strategy provides us with the opportunity to sell batteries
if government subsidies for EV sales are not maintained. the value added. to other automobile manufacturers and therefore generate
Manufacturers may not be able to generate profit from LEV Refer to section 2.5.3.2.2 additional revenue.
sales as anticipated since competitive pricing might be used in
Placing a Zero-emission hydrogen fuel cell offer complementary
order to win market share, while adversely affecting profits.
Optimizing battery cost. The Battery Management System aims to the battery-electric solutions.
Technological capabilities may prove short-lived if BEVs replace
to maximize the useful energy in real life, and controlling the Refer to section 2.5.2
PHEVs sooner than expected. After-sales revenue may also be
aging to postpone discharge as much as possible.
impacted as EVs require less maintenance than ICE vehicles.
The transition to LEVs could create a loss of added value if Anticipating the impacts of the Company’s decarbonization Launching a fast charging network across Europe to encourage
carmakers fail to obtain expertise in electrified technologies. strategy on its workers, in a “just transition approach” Stellantis EV adoption by supporting the EV ecosystem.
Since EV manufacturing reduces the number of workers boosts its workers’ employability through training programs.
Refer to section 2.5.3.2.3
needed per vehicle produced, increased LEV sales could impact The powertrain and gearbox industrial strategy is often on the
workforce volume. However, eventual delays in the development agenda of employee representative bodies meetings.
of new technology for electrification may result in the loss of Refer to section 3.1.4 and 3.2.7
revenue and market shares. The inability to keep up with the
market’s electrification trends would prevent the Company from
complying with CAFE regulations.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
RISK #3: INSUFFICIENT SUPPLY OF CRITICAL RAW MATERIALS TO SATISFY THE PRODUCTION NEEDS RELATED TO LEVS
Type of risk: Transition Risk: Market
Timeframe: Short-term (until 2025)
Risk Opportunities
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION STRATEGY ADDITIONAL OPPORTUNITIES
The transition from ICE to electrified vehicles is modifying the Implementing battery circular economy solutions to reduce Planning dual chemistry battery strategy and solid-state
need for raw materials. As Stellantis implements electrified automobile manufacturers’ pressure on scarce raw materials. batteries.
powertrain applications throughout its portfolio, it depends on a Refer to section 6.1.7.7 From 2024 dual chemistry strategy based on two cobalt free
significant supply of lithium, nickel and cobalt and on the supply batteries to relieve EVs of raw materials concerns.
of parts.
A vertical integration strategy regarding LEVs production. Joint development agreement signed with Factorial Energy to
Automotive Cells Company (ACC - European partnership with become a significant player in the solid-state batteries market in
POTENTIAL IMPACT TotalEnergies and Mercedes-Benz) and two other JVs (one with 2026.
Increased market power of raw materials and batteries suppliers Samsung SDI and one with LG Energy Solutions in North America) Refer to section 2.5.3.2.4
may negatively impact Stellantis’ ability to negotiate with planned five gigafactories in Europe and North America by 2025.
its suppliers and may provoke raw material inflation. Price Those are meant to secure Stellantis’ battery supply.
Relying on alternative sourcing. Stellantis promotes the materials
increases would increase Stellantis’ operating costs and could Refer to section 2.5.3.2.2 coming from recycling supply chains. Engineering resources are
reduce profitability. If the increased costs are passed through to
dedicated to increasing their rate in the production of vehicles.
customers via higher vehicles prices, the demand addressed to the
products sold by Stellantis might decrease. Certain raw materials Carbon free European and North American lithium sourcing. Refer to section 6.1.7.2
Stellantis signed direct off take contracts with two lithium
needed in lithium-ion batteries are sourced from a limited number
geothermal partners. Tier 1 battery suppliers also secured anode/
of suppliers and countries. These may be susceptible to supply Reducing CO emissions in the supply chain. Resource efficiency
cathode supply contracts in Europe. 2
shortages or disruptions. Their sourcing may also cause negative is an opportunity to combine competitiveness and climate change
environmental or social impacts. The global demand and supply of Refer to section 6.1.7.6 mitigation. Reducing the consumption of raw materials is a win-win
a single part could have huge impacts on our production. situation: it reduces the purchases expenditures as well as the
If Stellantis fails to optimize the raw materials and components carbon footprint.
used in its manufacturing processes, it may face increased
Refer to section 2.7
production costs.
The life cycle assessment will enhance the visibility on lower tier
down to the raw material producer
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
RISK #4: CHANGING MOBILITY MARKET DUE TO SHIFTS IN CUSTOMER PREFERENCES
Type of risk: Transition Risk: Market
Timeframe: Medium-term (2026-2035)
Risk Opportunities
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION STRATEGY ADDITIONAL OPPORTUNITIES
The automotive industry is facing disruptive trends that range Developing a portfolio of mobility services to prevent any gap Pursuing revolutionary autonomous driving projects as part of a
from the emergence of the mobility services market to the between the market and Stellantis’ business strategy. Free2move multi-partner strategy. While tech players and start-ups should
acceleration of new technologies such as the autonomous vehicle. and Leasys aim to compete with other actors, in and out of play an important role in the development of the autonomous
Automotive markets are shifting from vehicle ownership to shared the automotive sector, on subscription economy trends. They vehicle market, it also represents a huge opportunity for
mobility services that change the use of the vehicle fleet. More represent opportunities for Stellantis to increase its revenue and traditional automakers who manage to launch innovative high
environmentally conscious consumers turn to product-service gain market share outside of its traditional segments. technology projects.
systems that encourage the collaborative consumption of goods Refer to section 4.1.7 Refer to section 4.1.7
and services. In some areas of the world, consumers are more
reluctant to buy new vehicles and would rather look for shared
mobility services. The risk for Stellantis is insufficient adaptation
of its business model to new forms of mobility.
POTENTIAL IMPACT
As new forms of mobility gain consumer acceptance, vehicle sales
may decrease in some markets. The loss of revenue could affect
profitability, lead to asset impairment and a fall in their securities
valuation. The mobility service market may negatively affect
the strength of Stellantis’ brands: new mobility services make it
harder to differentiate a company’s products from those of its
competitors and therefore harder to encourage customer loyalty.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
RISK #5: INCREASED FREQUENCY AND SEVERITY OF EXTREME WEATHER EVENTS AND WATER SHORTAGES
Type of risk: Physical Risk: Acute
Timeframe: Medium-term (2026-2035)
Risk Opportunities
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION STRATEGY ADDITIONAL OPPORTUNITIES
Science shows that extreme weather events are becoming more Making and updating plans for business continuity and activity Reusing effluents for industrial use. Stellantis filters flushing
frequent and intense, that incremental climatic changes are very recovery at sites, according to their exposure to the risks and their water from the paint pre-treatment process and water from
likely to happen, and that their impacts are expected to grow criticality. Stellantis evaluates the probability of future impacts reverse osmosis to reuse them as industrial water.
more severe over the coming years and decades. The impacts of
physical risks are uncertain, in probability, magnitude and timing. due to earthquakes, flooding,storms and hurricanes on its sites. Refer to section 6.3
Suppliers are encouraged to do the same. Stellantis is able to
Water shortages represent a direct risk for Stellantis since its
identify the most resilient supply chain options and associated
manufacturing sites use water for production processes. In 2022,
suppliers.
35 plants were located in a high water-stressed area (according to
the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct “baseline water stress” Refer to section 2.3.1.3
indicator). These sites represent 32% of the Company’s production
volume.
Relying on an effective risk-assessment method to evaluate the
use of water in water-stressed facility locations and, as a result,
POTENTIAL IMPACT to mitigate future climate change impacts in those areas.
Stellantis’ production facilities and supply chain are subject to risks Refer to section 6.6.4.2
related to natural disasters, such as earthquakes, fires, floods,
hurricanes and other climatic phenomena. Any catastrophic loss
Striving for responsible water stewardship. To anticipate conflicts
or significant damage to any of its facilities would likely disrupt
of use in water-stressed areas and to comply with a developing
Stellantis’ operations, delay production and adversely affect its
regulatory framework, Stellantis set the objective to reach 1 m3 of
product development schedules and shipments and lead to a loss
water withdrawn per vehicle produced in industrial activities, an
of revenue. Our suppliers and the entire extended supply network
improvement of almost 80% compared to current performance.
is also vulnerable to these same disruptive impacts, potentially
leading to disruption in the supply of parts for Stellantis. The Refer to section 6.6.2
occurrence of a major incident at a single manufacturing site
could compromise the production and sale of several hundred Proactive environmental management of the supply chain.
thousand vehicles. Any such loss or significant damage could In order to minimize risks and avoid supply chain incidents we
result in expense to repair or replace the facility. Physical climate- monitor and require ISO 14001 certification from our supply
related risks could also have an impact on the cost of insurance. base as well as carbon accounting activities covered by the
Conflicts of use in water stressed areas could have significant Stellantis Supply Chain CDP Program. For strategic suppliers we
repercussions, notably economic and social impacts that would additionally review environmental topics during the Top supplier
change the company’s relations with some of its stakeholders. Meetings. Operationally we work to optimize our supply chains by
Inadequate water supply for the painting and refrigeration optimization of transport plans and -routes.
processes would increase Stellantis’ operating costs.
Refer to section 7.1.3
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
IMPACTS OF CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS ON STELLANTIS CSR ISSUES Stellantis adopts measures
proportionate to its position in
TRANSITIONAL RISKS the materiality matrix and its
CLIMATE SENSITIVE Policy & Legal Technological Market Reputational PHYSICAL sensitivity to climate
ISSUE risks risks risks risks RISKS
Vehicle CO emissions
2
Carbon footprint of the supply chain:
purchasing and logistics
Industrial and sites carbon footprint
Vehicle impact on air quality
Responsible information to customers
Development of new mobility solutions
(including autonomous vehicles)
Management of company transformations
and social dialogue
Attracting and developing all talent
Wise use of materials in the vehicle life cycle
(including product recycling)
Responsible purchasing practices (including
local sourcing development) to support the
Company’s development in host territories
Sustainable water management in
manufacturing
Optimization of material cycles in industrial
processes (including waste)
Protection of biodiversity
This table shows which climate risks may have an impact on Stellantis climate-sensitive CSR issues on the short-, or
medium-term. The higher the climate sensitivity is, the more the climate risks affect Stellantis activities for those same
CSR issues. For each issue, Stellantis adopts measures proportionate to its position in the materiality matrix and its
sensitivity to climate . For more information refer to 6.2.3
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.3.1.3 A specific management of physical climate risks TCFD.Ra TCFD.Rb TCFD.Rc
Identifying and assessing the medium-, and long-term evolution of climate changes in terms of frequency and severity
are key for Stellantis to build appropriate adaptation plans, manage the related financial impacts and mitigate the risks. In
its global risk assessment, Stellantis evaluates the physical risks on its owned sites as well as in its supply chain. Indeed,
extreme weather events or natural disasters could damage production facilities owned by Stellantis and its suppliers’
sites, disrupting production and leading to costly delivery delays to the end customer, or resulting in plant repair costs.
For its own operations, Stellantis has implemented assertive industrial risk prevention strategies designed to:
■ prevent the occurrence of major incidents;
■ limit and control high-risk situations;
■ enable the various Stellantis structures to deal with emergency and crisis situations;
■ promote a risk prevention culture;
■ and optimize the transfer to the insurance market of high frequency risks.
Stellantis sites build and update plans for continuity and recovery of operations according to exposure to the risks and
criticality to the business. To evaluate the physical risks of Stellantis sites, the Company insurance partners use natural
disaster risk analyses from insurance databases, such as NatCatService from Munich RE. They monitor and analyze the
number of past geophysical, meteorological, hydrological and climatological events and their related financial losses.
They also project future occurrences of natural disasters and their potential physical impacts.
Based on this data, Stellantis evaluates the probability of future impacts due to earthquakes, flooding, storms and
hurricanes on all its sites. This methodology was applied globally to 120 sites worldwide. As flood events are among the
most relevant natural hazards that could affect Stellantis sites, a specific flood risk assessment study was done on the
sites that were potentially exposed to a higher flood risk across the regions. The sites also continue to develop prevention
plans based on those analyses with the adapted protocols, whereby investment requests regarding risk management are
presented. In addition to the induced extreme climatic phenomena such as natural disasters, Company insurance partners
also provide risk analyses regarding the direct consequences of the increase in temperature on Stellantis locations. In
2022, a specific assessment based on the RCP 8.5 scenario identified the Stellantis locations the most prone to temporary
closure due to heatwaves, triggering business interruption and related loss.
Stellantis has implemented
In its global risk assessment, Stellantis not only evaluates the physical risks on its owned sites, but also in its supply chain. assertive industrial risk
The strategy to manage physical climate-related risks along the supply chain begins with a simplified, semi-quantitative prevention strategies
approach used to prioritize suppliers, which helps focus on those crucial suppliers with the greatest potential impact or
loss likelihood to Stellantis supply chains. A second step entails a methodology and supporting tool that allows Stellantis
to assign a risk management maturity index to the supplier risk management processes.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
The final step is to work with specialized third-party risk research and development advisors to identify and quantify
risks that could impact the supply of components to Stellantis and develop adequate action plans to mitigate those risks.
In terms of supplier selection processes, climate-related physical risks analyses based on the same tools are also used
on suppliers’ sites based on their GPS coordinates. Stellantis is therefore able to identify the most resilient supply chain
options and associated suppliers. Another way to manage climate-related physical risks in the supply chain is to support
the increase in the recycling rates of critical raw materials and favor the integration of recycled material in our vehicles
which also reduces the Company’s dependence on raw materials supplies . For more information refer to 6.1
2.3.2 RESILIENCE STRATEGY BUILT WITH CLIMATE-RELATED SCENARIOS TCFD.Sc
In order to assess the impacts of both transition and physical climate-related risks in its strategy and planning and thus
to build an effective resilience strategy, Stellantis takes into account how these risks could potentially evolve and what
their implications might be. Indeed, most impacts of climate change are likely to affect Stellantis’ business and strategy in
the medium- to long-term. This generates uncertainty concerning future climate events and the solutions that might be
encountered to mitigate these risks. On those grounds, the Company uses qualitative and quantitative climate-related
scenario analysis for three main purposes:
To make technology mix projections
The assessment of transition climate-related risks is based on a qualitative and quantitative climate-related scenario
analysis. The scenarios used by Stellantis notably include potential scenarios for technological development or market
conditions. Marketing and products division teams use various climate-related scenarios based on internal assessment,
that are benchmarked with business partners and external scenarios developed by climate specialists, to ensure
consistency with the 1.5°C scenario.
The output of those scenarios is the potential market evolution by energy and technologies and for different geographical
zones, taking into account electricity mix projections in the countries considered. This analysis enables Stellantis to
understand the minimum and maximum thresholds of electrified vehicles needed on the market to be aligned with
the Paris Agreement. The use of climate-related scenarios also helps with identifying the share of effort to be made to
optimize CO emissions on conventional thermal vehicles in order to reach Stellantis targets relating to the average CO
2 2
emissions of all vehicles.
To set greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction targets
The use of climate-related scenarios supports the development of company-wide climate-related targets and the targets
defined for scopes 1, 2 and 3 are aligned with a 1.5°C scenario. The assumptions for the decarbonization of electricity are
based on the International Energy Agency scenarios.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
To measure Stellantis’ assets exposure to climate events
Stellantis’ assessment of physical climate-related risks for Stellantis assets and for its suppliers is based on a qualitative
and quantitative climate-related scenario analysis. The Company relies on its insurances partners who notably use
natural disaster risk analyses from insurance databases, such as NatCatService from Munich RE. One of the most extreme
scenarios considered in these databases is the IPCC RCP 8.5 scenario, the “worst-case climate scenario” studied in the
IPCC fifth assessment report.
Specifically for water stress risk, the Company uses the business-as-usual scenario (SSP2 RCP8.5) of the Aqueduct Water
Risk Atlas for 2030 to conduct sensitivity analysis and stress testing . For more information refer to 6.6.4.2
2.3.3 CLIMATE EMBEDDED INTO BUSINESS PLANNING VIA THE USE OF AN TCFD.Ma
INTERNAL PRICE OF CARBON
Regarding “carbon pricing”, Stellantis acknowledges - and has started to integrate into its various decision processes - the
principle of regulatory pricing of GHG emissions, such as EU Emissions Trading System (ETS).
■ The principle is already implemented for technical levers that reduce vehicle CO 2 tailpipe emissions, allowing Stellantis to
propose an optimized set of CO reduction levers on its vehicles based on a cost-efficiency analysis.
2
■ For upcoming new vehicle programs cost of compensation through carbon removal technologies of their global carbon
footprint – including purchased parts - is assessed and is implemented in profitability study when relevant.
■ All plants have CO 2 reduction targets and are required to present roadmaps to reach Stellantis carbon net zero ambition
and present yearly progress. The decision-making process which allows capital investments in carbon reduction projects
takes carbon price into account as well as the alignment with the decarbonization goals.
In any case, Stellantis’ decarbonization pace is driven by its commitment to cut 2021 emissions by 50% in 2030 and by
more than 90% in 2038, not by a trade-off between decarbonization costs and costs of remaining emissions.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.4 Climate governance and decision bodies to lead actions
In order to have an efficient governance to support the implementation of decisions related to climate actions, Stellantis SASB-410a.3
has embedded climate issues at various levels of the organization, with responsibility exercised within the Company’s
management and executive functions. Taking steps for climate to be central in decisions and operations can protect
performance and enable Stellantis to improve its economic and financial efficiency by safeguarding the value of its assets,
managing its risks more effectively and protecting its value and sustainability in the medium- to long-term.
2.4.1 SUPERVISORY BODIES: STRIVING FOR LONG-TERM CLIMATE RESILIENCE TCFD.Ga
Bodies responsible for climate risks and opportunities oversight and control
Stellantis N.V. has a one-tier board: the Board of Directors is responsible for management and strategic direction of the
Company as well as oversight and control.
The CEO is supported by the Top Executive Team aiming to secure worldwide profitable growth for Stellantis.
Within this governance structure, the Board of Directors considers subjects that link to the strategic plan. Climate being
a key topic, the Board of Directors ensures that the strategy fits with Stellantis long-term vision and climate resilience,
but also that related risks and opportunities stemming from the effects of climate change are properly identified and
managed.
The CEO and the Strategy Council are responsible for defining the overall environmental strategy, including Climate
related policies. The CEO reports to the Board of Directors.
Major strategic projects with significant impact on the CO emissions of the Company or its products are being brought to
2
the Board of Directors for review and decisions. Those projects can be related to vehicle CO emissions reduction, as well
2
as product planning or new mobility offers with CO emission reduction targets.
2
Other major projects that can be impacted by the consequences of climate change, such as the location of new sites, are
also reviewed by the Board.
The Board reviews the related financial implications of strategic projects with significant impact on CO emissions, such
2
as the CAPEX or strategic transformation needed to implement these projects. The Board discusses these projects for
approval after being informed about aspects such as CO emission consequences and expected changes in the future
2
mobility market.
During Board meetings, Stellantis’ strategic climate commitments, their implementation and their progress versus targets,
are discussed to the Board of Directors, in order to deliver relevant information on the climate-related CSR issues impacting
the organization.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
Board of Directors committees: incorporation of climate related topics
With its 11 members, the Board of Directors has implemented three Committees with specific roles:
■ the Audit Committee;
■ the ESG Committee;
■ the Remuneration Committee.
These specialized Committees prepare and produce work for the Board of Directors. Each Committee issues proposals,
recommendations and opinions within the scope of its responsibilities.
ESG Committee
The ESG Committee is responsible for monitoring and evaluating reports on the Company’s sustainable development
policies and practices, management standards, strategy, performance and governance globally. It is also responsible for
reviewing, assessing and making recommendations regarding strategic guidelines for sustainability-related issues and
reviewing the annual CSR Report.
In 2022 climate change-related topics have been addressed by the Committee in its meetings.
2.4.2 EXECUTIVE BODIES: PUTTING CLIMATE RESPONSIBILITY AS A CENTRAL
TCFD.Gb GRI 2-23 GRI 3-3
THEME IN EXECUTIVE DECISION-MAKING
The Top Executive Team has a broad reach across the organization. Therefore, the Team has a global vision of climate-
sensitive challenges and the impacts that these challenges have on the Stellantis business model and management
bodies. The Top Executive Team monitors progress against climate commitments and objectives, and reviews the top risks
with a particular focus on climate change, especially vehicle CO emissions, as the most strategic CSR issue for Stellantis.
2
Therefore, climate-sensitive issues are embedded in decisions made by the Top Executive Team on reviewing and guiding
major plans of action, annual budgets or business plans.
At the Executive level, two global Committees review climate-related topics:
The Strategy Council
The Top Executive
The role of the Strategy Council is to look at the long-term future and potential courses of action for growth and to Team has a global vision
define the Strategic Plan and validate the corresponding investment plans. Since the topic of CO emissions of vehicles of climate-sensitive
2
is a strategic issue for Stellantis, the Strategy Council’s role is to verify that proposals on these topics fit the Company’s challenges
strategy and its execution.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
The Strategy Council meets monthly, to direct the strategy regarding vehicle CO emissions and to review on a quarterly
2
basis the overall carbon net zero roadmap with the Top Executive Team. The main objectives are to:
■ Share the forecast of vehicle CO 2 emission average for short, medium and long-term in different countries and
geographical areas (especially where CAFE/CO regulation exists, such as in the U.S., Europe, China, Brazil, Japan, Korea,
2
India, Australia, etc) and decide on action plans;
■ Share the scenarios on hypotheses worked out by the Company’s experts:
● using internal data related to Stellantis’ current technologies
● using external data related to climate scenarios and market trends (regulation assumptions, energy mix evolution,
uptake of electrified vehicles, etc.)
● covering risks regarding the supply chain including shortages.
■ Approve global action plans and make the necessary decisions to achieve Stellantis carbon net zero roadmap consistently
with the Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan.
The range of attendees demonstrates that the CO issue is at the core of Stellantis activities and strategy: the CEO is
2
the Chairman of the Strategy Council. Top Executive Team members from Planning, Manufacturing, Purchasing & Supply
Chain, General Counsel, Human Resources & Transformation, Finance, Regions, Brands and Engineering also participate.
The frequent briefings of Top Executive Team members during the Strategy Council meetings about climate-related topics
such as Life Cycle Assessment or carbon neutrality are meant for top managers to be up-to-date regarding climate change.
The Industrial Committee
Reflecting Stellantis’ commitment to embed CO issues within executive decision-making, the Industrial Committee was
2
established in 2021. It provides notably executive bodies within Stellantis with a global overview of CO issues within
2
industrial activities. This instance validates the mid- and long-term vision about CO emissions from industrial activities.
2
This committee reviews all initiatives related to the plants to ensure that they are following the decarbonization strategy . For more information refer to 2.6.3
Strategic and operational decision-making to drive climate risks and opportunities
management across the organization
CO Corporate Office
2
In the planning division, the CO Corporate office is leading a global cross-functional team to drive all the action plans to
2
go towards CO emissions reduction and carbon net zero objective.
2
The Executive Vice President, Planning holds direct and specific responsibility on corporate CO emission average,
2
provides orientation for the development of new vehicles and in particular low-carbon vehicles. The Planning division
translates Stellantis strategy into product plans and supervises their implementation by steering the development of
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
Several climate issues fall into the scope of the Executive Vice President, Engineering, who supervises the research
and development of low emission technologies as well as the reduction of the impact on air quality of the Company’s
technologies and the wise use of materials in the vehicle life cycle.
The Executive Vice President, Purchasing and Supply Chain, is involved in reducing emissions from purchased goods
and services since they will represent an increasing portion of the Company’s CO footprint. The division monitors the
2
environmental performance and CO emissions of suppliers and uses local sourcing as a way to enhance CO performance
2 2
of Stellantis. It also manages the logistics challenges on CO emissions.
2
The Executive Vice President, Manufacturing, coordinates the deployment of Stellantis environmental policy for
manufacturing and research sites. In addition, the Executive VP manages an annual investment plan that targets plant
operations compliance with regulatory changes, while mitigating pollution and environmental risks. In addition to product
strategy, which emphasizes the development of low-carbon vehicles, the Executive Vice President Manufacturing focuses
the Manufacturing Division on programs and actions to reduce the Company’s carbon footprint through a reduction of
energy consumption and an increase of renewable sources.
The Executive Vice President, Customer Experience, is responsible for the Company’s Quality Policy and the Conformity
of Production of the homologated vehicles, notably their conformity to the vehicles CO emission requirements.
2
The Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Transformation contributes to the Company’s transition to a low-
carbon economy by providing the necessary skills through the attraction of talent, the upscaling of employees and the co-
construction of the Company’s future via social dialogue with employees’ representatives. In addition, the Human Resources
and Transformation Division is widely developing teleworking and online meetings to reduce the carbon footprint linked
to employees commuting daily from home to the workplace or travelling between Company locations. Real Estate assets
are also managed to minimize their carbon footprint and their resilience to physical risks. This Executive Vice President also
supervises the Audit and Compliance Department in charge of the Company’s risk management and internal control.
The Executive Vice Presidents for mobility and connectivity services, have an essential role in the implementation of
new mobility solutions and the development of Free2move and Leasys, Stellantis’ mobility brands, with the ambition to
make them the preferred mobility service providers for customers.
The Office of the General Counsel provides climate change-related, CO regulatory updates and legal support to the
2
Company’s organizations. Among other matters, it deals with GHG-related governmental enforcement and private
litigations. The Public Affairs Department, under the responsibility of the General Counsel, is responsible for supporting
the Company’s interactions with institutions concerning climate.
Finally, across the regions and brands, consistency on climate change is also targeted at the Top Executive Team
level, since the Executive Vice Presidents of the Company’s geographical business regions or brands are in charge of
implementing climate action plans in their area of responsibility and working to the achievement of the objectives set
by the Executive Committee.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.4.3 EMBEDDING CLIMATE ACROSS VARIOUS MANAGEMENT LEVELS TCFD.Ga TCFD.Gb
Climate risks and opportunities management is shared across the organization. Meeting the climate-related commitments GRI 2-19 GRI 2-20
is highly strategic for Stellantis. Therefore, CO dedicated targets are annually set at various management levels and
2
according to job perimeters (defined and reviewed during the annual performance review). Corresponding incentive plan
are in place to foster the climate performance of the Company and the achievement of the set targets. Individual salary
raises and bonuses are linked to the annual performance assessment, which can notably take into account some of the
following carbon-related targets for certain employees.
Examples of incentives plans for the management of climate-related issues
ORGANIZATIONAL DIVISIONS CLIMATE-RELATED TARGETS
All Stellantis employees eligible
for the incentive plans
Reductions in carbon emissions principally through the growth in production and sales of
Chief Executive Officer electric vehicles
Top Executive Team members
Planning Short-term CO-related targets, on the implementation of specific programs aligned with
2
the ambition to reduce average CO emissions of the vehicles sold worldwide.
2
Vehicle project managers can have targets based on vehicle CO performance.
2
Manufacturing Short-term CO reduction targets based on improved energy consumption and increased
2
share of decarbonized electricity.
Energy, environment and facility managers are operationally involved in facilities
environmental management and energy saving and have targets related to energy savings
in terms of CO emission reduction.
2
Purchasing & Supply Chain Short-term CO reduction targets based on the increase of the share of strategic suppliers
2
demonstrating a CO trend compliant with the Paris Agreement and on the implementation
2
of processes allowing to reduce CO emission of purchased parts for EVs.
2
This incentive plan demonstrates the integration of climate objectives in the compensation system across the
organization. The 2023 annual bonus plan will include the additional ESG metric of reductions in carbon emissions
principally through the growth in production and sales of electric vehicles.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.5 Vehicle CO emissions
2
Cutting CO vehicles emissions is the first dimension of Stellantis’ decarbonization strategic plan. The levers on
2
Well-to-Wheel CO emissions presented in this section support Stellantis to meet its objective of reducing by 50% its
2
SASB-410a.3
carbon footprint in 2030 compared to 2021, on the Company’s path to carbon net zero in 2038.
2.5.1 POLICIES TO EXECUTE THE STRATEGY GRI 3-3 GRI 305-5
Stellantis is committed to reducing its CO emissions in the various regions in which it operates. Stellantis’ strategy is
2
to strive for compliance with Corporate Average Fuel Economy and CO regulations worldwide. As they are by far the
2
Company’s main carbon footprint component, emissions from use of sold products (use phase of new sold vehicles) are at
the center of the Company’s carbon net zero objective, which was determined using a Well-to-Wheel approach.
The main levers for the Company to reduce vehicle CO emissions are:
2
■ a LEV mix ramp-up, offering a wide range of BEV and PHEV ; For more information refer to 2.5.3.2
■ a zero-emission fuel cell offer for LCVs, complementary to full battery models ; For more information refer to 2.5.2
■ a BEV-by-design platform strategy to be operational from 2024 ; For more information refer to 2.5.3.2.1
■ a vertical integration strategy aiming to control the LEV value chain and its costs, to secure supply and quality ; For more information refer to 2.5.3.2.2
■ the use of MHEV technologies ; For more information refer to 2.5.3.3
■ the deployment of technical levers to improve all key aspects of energy consumption: for example, aerodynamics, rolling
resistance and electrical consumption . For more information refer to 2.5.3.4
2.5.2 ORGANIZATION AND RESOURCES
GRI 3-3
Given its high stake for Stellantis, resources are mobilized across the Company for its electrification: from the definition
of the strategy to the sales in all regions, with the involvement of planning, engineering, manufacturing and supply chain
divisions.
2.5.2.1 Managing vehicles CO emissions
2
Stellantis incorporates CO emissions management from product planning to sales. Dedicated tools have been put in place
2
to provide real-time information on the current status and forecasts of CO emissions for all Stellantis brands, allowing the
2
revision of production program and commercial policy accordingly.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.5.2.2 Investment in innovative tech to reduce CO 2 emissions of products GRI 305-5
To limit CO emissions from vehicles, Stellantis is continuing to develop efficient products by implementing technical
2
solutions whose cost effectiveness is beneficial for its customers. The Company plans to invest more than €30 billion
through 2025 in electrification and software, while continuing to be one of the automotive efficiency front runners, with
investment efficiency significantly better than industry average, with respect to total Capex and research and development
spend versus revenues.
Patent strategy
Our patented inventions are a key factor in working toward these objectives and provide us with a strategic competitive
advantage. In 2022, Stellantis published a total of 1,177 patents applications that were mainly focused on major challenges
of tomorrow’s mobility, notably the development of new powertrains to meet our customer expectations for energy
transition and sustainable and responsible mobility: engines and transmissions for electrified vehicles, batteries, fuel cells
and their control strategies, as well as driver assistance systems, connectivity and services; vehicle platforms comfort and
safety equipment.
Fuel Cell: an additional opportunity in Stellantis’ portfolio
Through its Hydrogen Fuel cell Center of Competence in Rüsselsheim (Germany), Stellantis is leading research to develop
Fuel Cell Electric Vehicle (FCEV) technology.
The research is built around the following pillars:
■ design to customer: LCV market, B2B, Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) centric, shipping volume and payload preserved;
■ design to optimize development cost: right power architecture associated with a plug-in battery and a high level of
carry over platform and e-powertrain;
■ global offering: Stellantis/Energy providers partnerships including vehicle, aftersales, leasing, services, energy
PRESS RELEASE
infrastructure and supply.
Stellantis Hordain: First Plant in the World
As a result, the Company began the launch in 2021 of a Light Commercial Vehicle (LCV) fleet equipped with this to Produce Hydrogen-powered, Electric and
FCEV technology. This technology combines hydrogen fuel cell and electric battery to provide the energy to the Combustion Engine Commercial Vehicles
electric motor. It allows Stellantis to place a zero emission FCEV solution, complementary to the 100% battery- https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
press-releases/2022/october/stellantis-
electric solution, and thus will attract new customers, in particular those who drive frequently long distances and
hordain-first-plant-in-the-world-to-
need to refuel quickly. This version offers 400 km of range at a refueling time for a complete fill with hydrogen of produce-hydrogen-powered-electric-
and-combustion-engine-commercial-
three minutes only, without any compromise on payload and volume. This technology is already available on Citroën, vehicles#:~:text=Stellantis%20Hordain%3A%20
Peugeot and Opel models and production capacity will reach 5,000 vehicles per year from 2024 because of new First%20Plant%20in%20the%20World%20
to,cell%20light%20commercial%20vehicles%20
investments at Hordain plant in France . to%20an%20industrial%20level
More information on Hydrogen Fuel Cell is available on the corporate website.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
Use of alternative fuels
Alternative fuels are also a key component of Stellantis’ strategy to achieve fleet greenhouse gases (GHG) emission
reduction, considering that the production of alternative fuels emits less CO which can compensate for tailpipe CO
2 2
emissions.
In close collaboration with leading renewable fuel producers, Stellantis makes sure that products in the hand of customers
will be well prepared for these fuels.
Within Stellantis, the Center of Competence Alternative Fuels (CCAF) leads the research and development activities and
is responsible for technological, strategic and application knowhow on Alternative Fuels.
Alternative fuels from biological origin (Biofuels)
■ Ethanol flex-fuel vehicles in Brazil: Stellantis develops flex-fuel vehicles (FFV), which run on gasoline-ethanol blends in
variable proportions: in 2022, more than 500.000 Stellantis flex-fuel vehicles were registered in Brazil.
■ Stellantis is also working to anticipate the potential increase of bio component rate like ethanol or Hydrotreated
Vegetable Oil, in order to have vehicles that are compatible with future European standards.
■ To support the development of “advanced biofuels” from non-food resources, such as biomass waste, non-hazardous
organic waste and micro-algae, Stellantis has conducted projects such as lipid biofuels from micro-algae in France (PE
Shamash project3) and in Brazil with the Federal University of Parana in Curitiba.
Alternative fuels from non-biological origin: non-fossil e-fuels
Stellantis is also actively exploring the potential of e-fuels, synthetic fuels produced from the combination of carbon
dioxide and hydrogen from water electrolysis with renewable electricity. The objective is to reduce production cost and
prices of such e-fuels and to develop direct air capture of CO to optimize GHG balance.
2
2.5.3 MAIN INITIATIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND RESULTS GRI 3-3 GRI 302-5
2.5.3.1 CO performances of Stellantis vehicles: a trajectory in line with the COP21 commitments
2
The whole Company is committed to CO reduction efforts, from the Engineering Department to commercial network.
2
A Tank-to-Wheel performance compliant with CO 2 regulations GRI 2-27
Being fully compliant to regulatory requirements is an essential prerequisite for Stellantis.
Driven by the electrification ramp-up and technical improvements brought to conventional vehicles, the CO emissions of
2
sold vehicles are improving year-over-year.
3 Production of a methyl ester from the microalgae Nannochloropsis grown in raceways on the French west coast, Fuel Elsevier, Fuel 153(2015)640-649
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
In 2021 and 2022, in the European Union and United Kingdom, Stellantis has reached its Corporate Average Fuel
Economy (CAFE) regulatory targets, both for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles without buying any
external credits.
Stellantis is also planning for compliance with local regulations in all other CO regulated markets, potentially leveraging
2 For for Stellantis’ sales-weighted average
opportunities to carry forward and carry back credits where applicable through local regulation with the aim of ensuring
fuel emissions and CO emissions data by 2
self-compliance of Stellantis without additional credit purchases from other manufacturers4 . region refer to 2.5.4.1
Stellantis is striving to achieve a higher level of CO performance year after year by:
2
■ Investing in LEV technologies For more information refer to 2.5.3.2
■ increasing our LEV sales with the ambition to be one of the top players of LEV markets in the future years, especially
in Europe and in the U.S.
■ Optimizing technologies that benefit both LEV and ICE vehicles.
4 Outside of Stellantis brands and Stellantis JV’s
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.5.3.2 Electrification: an ambitious plan to roll out electric and hybrid technologies By 2030, Stellantis targets to
include a BEV version of all our
Stellantis responds to the environmental challenges associated with vehicle use thanks to technological solutions designed
passenger car models marketed
to drive powerful breakthroughs in fuel efficiency and CO emissions. The introduction of zero-emission electric vehicles
2 in Europe and all our passenger
and plug-in hybrid vehicles, are poised to enable the company consolidate its position in the low-emission vehicle (LEV)
car and light duty trucks models
segment in its various markets. marketed in the U.S.
Placing short-, medium- and long-term quantitative targets on the share of LEVs sales in the total sales and on the
percentage of nameplates available in a LEV version enables Stellantis to define and track alignment with a clear roadmap
of how to attain its fleet CO emissions reduction targets.
2
Stellantis electrification roadmap
Each of the Company’s 14 vehicle brands is committed to offering fully electrified solutions.
In 2022, 48 percent of Passenger Cars nameplates in Europe (versus 40 percent in 2021) and 14 percent of Passenger
Cars and Light Duty Trucks nameplates in the U.S. (versus 10 percent in 2021) were available in an electrified
version.
In 2025:
■ 96% of the Passenger Cars (PC) models marketed by Stellantis in Europe will be offered in full electric (BEV) or plug-in
hybrid versions (PHEV);
■ 91% of the Passenger Cars, Light Duty Trucks (LDT) models marketed by Stellantis in the U.S. will be proposed in
electrified version.
By 2030, Stellantis targets to include a BEV version of all our passenger car models marketed in Europe and all our
passenger car and light duty trucks models marketed in the U.S.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
EUROPE: nameplates with electrified version (PC) US: nameplates with electrified version (PC & LDT)
20%
10%
After four BEVs and six PHEV in 2021, three new BEV and five new PHEV vehicles have been launched in 2022:
■ BEV: Fiat E-Doblo, Fiat E-Scudo (in Europe) and Citroën All-New Ë-C3 (in India)
■ PHEV: Peugeot 308 SW, Citroën C5 X, Opel Astra, Alfa Romeo Tonale, Jeep Grand Cherokee 4xe
In 2023, nine BEV and three PHEV are planned to extend Stellantis LEV offer.
Stellantis also offers a sustainable urban mobility line-up, including Citroën AMI, AMI Cargo and Opel ROCKS-e. Those
urban low footprint electric devices, accessible to young drivers, are an additional answer to current mobility requirements,
especially in cities.
1202 2202 3202 4202 5202 6202 7202 8202 9202 0302
100%
100% 96%
100%
90%
80% 76% 78%
70%
61%
60%
53%
48%
50%
40%
40%
31%
30%
15%
14%
1202 2202 3202 4202 5202 6202 7202 8202 9202 0302
100%
100%
91% 100%
90%
80%
70%
60% 55% 59%
50%
40% 36%
29%
30%
20% 14%
10%
10% 8%
BEV% LEV%
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
ELECTRIFIED LAUNCHES IN 2022
Fiat Fiat Citroën
E-Doblo E-Scudo All-New Ë-C3
Peugeot Citroen Opel Alfa Romeo Jeep
308 SW C5 X Astra Tonale Grand Cherokee
4xe
This electrification roadmap supports the Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan objective to grow, year by year, the worldwide
LEV sales mix and to reach in 2030 a BEV sales mix of 100% in Europe for PC and 50% in the U.S. for PC and LDT,
Based on internal estimates, in 2022 :
■ In Europe 305, LEV sales represented 18.3% of Stellantis passenger cars (versus 12.8% in 2021),
■ In U.S. 4.9% of passenger cars and light duty trucks sold by Stellantis were LEVs (versus 3.4% in 2021).
■ more than 40% of electric light commercial registered on European market were Stellantis vehicles.
LEV mixes increase is one of our main levers on our roadmap to carbon net zero . For Stellantis’ detailed sales mix by
energy type refer to 2.5.4.2
Stellantis’ fast LEV mix ramp-up is supported by:
5 Europe 30 = EU 27 (excluding Malta) + Norway + Iceland + UK + Switzerland (inc. Liechtenstein)
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
■ A pure BEV-focused platform strategy For more information refer to 2.5.3.2.1
■ A vertical integration strategy to master the LEV value chain For more information refer to 2.5.3.2.2
■ A charging and energy strategy that aims to position Stellantis in the e-mobility ecosystem For more information refer to 2.5.3.2.3
These three levers are consistent and intertwined. Stellantis strategy to gain control over the LEV value chain is supported
by specific EV-related services from Free2move eSolutions joint venture that delivers charging infrastructure solutions,
charging-as-a-service and advanced energy services to European customers. This is expected to be leveraged in the BEV-
focused platform strategy, which means that Stellantis should have a 360-degree approach to control the performance
that it delivers to the customers, both in terms of range, drive smoothness, quality, but also the high level of control of
cost and supply.
DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS
Electrification is one of the key pillars supporting Dare Forward 2030 long term Stellantis strategic plan (announced
March 1, 2022)
Through a 360-degree approach, Stellantis electrification strategy includes:
• Electrification roadmap for product line up and adaptation of our manufacturing facilities
• New integrated value chain covering the product life cycle Mastering the LEV value chain For more information refer to 2.5.3.2.2
• Development of future batteries technologies (Solid-state) Battery technologies innovation: more energy density,
faster to charge, less expensive For more information refer to 2.5.3.2.4
• Raw material availability increase Link to paragraph Material supply
• Wide range of services for the customers Link to An active role in contributing to affordable and clean mobility
2.5.3.2.1 The pure BEV-focused platform strategy of Stellantis
From 2024, the sales of Stellantis’ LEV products worldwide are expected to be driven by a 4 platform BEV-focused
strategy for Passenger Cars: Stella Small for the A, B and C segments; Stella Medium for C and D segments; Stella Large
for D and E segments and Stella Frame platform for the electrified E and F segments SUVs and the pickup trucks.
Covering the various market segments and regions where Stellantis operates, these full-BEV platforms should enable
high modularity with parts and technology commonality without any compromise on BEV performance.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
This limited number of platforms will be BEV-focused to ensure that the Company has a volume scale effect that is The sales of Stellantis’ LEV
intended to drive the cost competitiveness and therefore the profitability of Stellantis, in order to compensate for products worldwide will
electrification costs. Being BEV-focused, they will deliver a significant performance to address the range anxiety of BEVs. be driven by a 4 platform
BEV-focused strategy for
The Stella Small for A, B and C entry products is expected to deliver more than 500 kilometers of range. The Stella Medium
Passenger Cars
is expected to deliver more than 700 kilometers of range. The Stella Large is expected to deliver more than 800 kilometers
of range. On the Stella Frame, the expected range is 800 kilometers.
Until the launch of Stellantis’ BEV-by-design platforms, existing multi-energy platforms will allow the manufacture of the
next generation of electric vehicles.
As a result, Stellantis has the flexibility to adapt to changes in the energy mix in its various markets and can offer its
customers a comprehensive range of technologies that meet their usage needs and contribute to increasingly responsible
mobility.
STELLANTIS’ BEV-BY-DESIGN PLATFORM MOMENTUM
4 BEV STLA 500 km
BY DESIGN PLATFORMS SMALL 300 miles
HIGH ENERGY DENSITY STLA 700 km
AND EFFICIENT BATTERIES MEDIUM 440 miles
3 UNIBODY
OPTIMIZED SEGMENTATION STLA 800 km
FOR FULL MARKET COVERAGE LARGE 500 miles
CROSS SHARED COMPONENTS STLA 800 km
AND SYSTEMS FRAME 500 miles
1 BODY ON FRAME
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
COMPANY TRANSFORMATION THROUGH THE SOFTWARE STRATEGY
Stellantis Software Day
The heart of the transformation to customer-centric services is the new electrical/electronic (E/E) and
https://www.stellantis.com/
software architecture. As announced on December 7, 2021 during the Stellantis Software Day , three en/investors/events/sw-day-2021
new tech platforms (STLA Brain, STLA SmartCockpit, STLA AutoDrive) will be launched in 2024 and will
be deployed, at scale, across the four vehicle platforms of Stellantis over the following two years.
STLA Brain will be fully Over-the-Air (OTA) capable, with 30 modules addressed, versus 10 today,
making it highly flexible. It is a service-oriented architecture fully integrated with the cloud that
connects electronic control units within the vehicle with the vehicle’s central high performing computer
(HPC) via a high-speed data bus.
It breaks today’s bond between hardware and software generations, enabling software developers to
create and update features and services quickly without waiting for a new hardware launch.
2.5.3.2.2 Mastering the LEV value chain
Stellantis is working to secure and grow its share of the added value relating to low-emissions vehicles, having found a
balance between partnerships with expert companies and in-house design and manufacturing.
With this strategy, Stellantis is targeting to control 80% of the BEV value with its joint ventures which is more than the
share of value that the company controls for ICE (in both cases without taking into account raw materials).
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
INCREASING THE CONTROL OF THE LEV VALUE ADDED Stellantis is working to
secure and grow its share of
the added value relating to
Cell and Module e-motors low-emissions vehicles
Raw materials
(Lithium, Nickel, Manganese...)
sourcing securitization
through partnerships
SOP*: upcoming
Reducer
SOP* ***: upcoming STLA BEV platform
e-DCT**
SOP*: upcoming
Battery Housing and Assembly
E-Powertrain and Vehicle
Energy Management
SOP*: upcoming
Software
Battery management system
Services
SOP*: upcoming
* Start Of Production Stellantis
** For PHEV
*** Closing subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals
Partnership with Stellantis
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
Strategic move to become a leading player in battery cells and modules
Getting ready for the electric future of mobility, Stellantis is focused on securing its battery cells supply as itis the most
cost-, quality- and performance sensitive matter of an EV, which is the battery cell. For that purpose, the Automotive Cells
Company (ACC) joint venture was created in September 2020 between former PSA/Opel and Total/Saft, In September 2021 PRESS RELEASE
Mercedes-Benz AG agreed to join ACC as its third partner. First ACC gigafactories will be located in Douvrin (France) for the
Stellantis Affirms Commitment to Italy with
start of production in 2024 and in Kaiserslautern (Germany) for the start of production in 2025 . A third facility located in Automotive Cells Company’s (ACC) Planned
Termoli (Italy) has been announced for a total ACC cell capacity of more than 120GWh by 2030. ACC capacity plan will mobilize Battery Plant Investment:
an investment of more than €7 billion. The technology used targets to offer the highest level of energy performance, both in https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
press-releases/2022/march/stellantis-
terms of range and charging time and improved carbon footprint compared to current results. This project aims to position affirms-commitment-to-italy-with-
ACC as a major competitive player in supplying electric vehicle manufacturers with high-performance batteries . automotive-cells-company-s-acc-planned-
battery-plant-investment
In 2022, Stellantis finalized a joint venture with Samsung SDI for the production of battery cells and modules for North
America, targeted to begin production in Kokomo, Indiana (U.S.) in 2025 with initial annual production capacity of 23 GWh.
In 2022, Stellantis and LG Energy Solution also announced a plan to invest $5 billion CAD in a joint venture for Canada’s
first large scale lithium-ion battery production plant, which will be built in Windsor, Canada. The agreement between PRESS RELEASE
Stellantis and LG Energy Solution is subject to customary closing conditions. Other joint ventures, with Nidec Corporation Stellantis and LG Energy Solution to Invest
Over $5 billion CAD in Joint Venture for
and Punch Powertrain, were established to design and manufacture electric propulsion system-related components.
First Large Scale Lithium-Ion Battery
Total capacity of these two plants is planned to be close to 80 GWh which will contribute to support the global Stellantis Production Plant in Canada
demand of 400 GWh by 2030 . https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
press-releases/2022/march/stellantis-and-
Strategic partnerships regarding e-components integration for next generation of electrified Powertrain lg-energy-solution-to-invest-over-5-billion-
cad-in-joint-venture-for-first-large-scale-lithium-
As announced in the Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan, in order to increase control of cost, quality and performance of electric Ion-battery-production-plant-in-canada
powertrain-related components, Stellantis has embedded their design and manufacture through joint ventures – respectively
PRESS RELEASE
Nidec Stellantis e-motors and Punch Powertrain Stellantis e-transmissions – but also reduction gears and battery pack assembly.
Stellantis and Samsung SDI to Invest Over
Thereby, new e-components for PHEV, BEV and MHEV applications are integrated in the upcoming generation of $2.5 billion in Joint Venture for Lithium-Ion
Battery Production Plant in United States
electrified powertrains. Innovation activities aim to reduce cost, improve efficiency and compactness.
https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
Nidec Stellantis e-motors press-releases/2022/may/stellantis-and-
samsung-announce-battery-plant-in-kokomo
Stellantis formed a joint venture with Nidec Leroy-Somer Holding in the field of electric motors. Backed by a €220
million shared investment, the partnership should lead to the development of a cutting-edge range of electric motors for
electrified vehicles. The joint venture aims to meet the needs of both Stellantis and other automakers.
Based in Carrières-sous-Poissy, just outside Paris, the entity currently comprises 240 employees dedicated to designing,
developing and manufacturing new electric powertrains to be produced at the Trémery plant (Moselle, France). This plant has
been upgraded through industrial investments of more than €93 million to date. Production has started in 2022 and is expected
to exceed one million motors per year by 2024 for PHEV and BEV vehicles of Stellantis and possibly other automakers.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
Punch Powertrain Stellantis e-transmissions PRESS RELEASE
Stellantis and Punch Powertrain have formed the e-Transmissions Assembly joint venture. The entity is backed by a Transformation in Action: Trémery-Metz
Powertrain Plants in France Support
shared investment of €82 million and will focus on producing the future generation of electrified dual-clutch transmissions
Stellantis’ Electrified Portfolio
(eDCTs) as from 2023.
https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
Featuring a 48-volt configuration, the transmission will be fitted on Stellantis’ future MHEV models. The eDCT will be press-releases/2022/june/transformation-in- action-tremery-metz-powertrain-plants-in-
designed and developed in Punch Powertrain research centers in Belgium and the Netherlands and manufactured at france-support-stellantis-electrified-portfolio
Stellantis’ Metz plant in Moselle (France), a facility chosen for its cost-efficiency and recognized for its expertise in gearbox
production. The Metz plant is expected to have an annual production capacity of 600,000 eDCT gearboxes, supported
by a €57 million industrial investment to date. To extend further the manufacturing capacities of eDCT gearbox, a second
plant in Mirafiori (Turin - Italy) has been announced in September 2022 and is expected to start deliveries in 2024.
A second joint venture was established to design, manufacture and supply state of the art components and sub-systems
for the future generation of the electrified transmission, the Dual Clutch Transmission (DT2) by Punch Powertrain which
is cost efficient and compact, available in Mild hybrid 48V, plug-in hybrid or conventional variants .
Industrial footprint of LEV-related activities
ELECTRIFICATION FOOTPRINT: PICTURE 2022>2025
Elsmer Port Battery Cell Gigafactory
Windsor Luton Battery Tray Process
Gliwice
Hordain Battery Assembly shop
Eisenarch Tychy
Kokomo Valenciennes
Douvrin Russelsheim ePWT Process
JV TremeryMetz Kaiserslautern Trnava Electrified Transmission
Rennes
Poissy Mulhouse
Sochaux
Mirafiori
Vigo
Zaragoza Cassino Termoli
Mangualde Melfi
Toluca Madrid
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
Material supply
Many raw materials used for High-Voltage Batteries are in demand due to the shift to electrification. The manner in which the
materials are extracted and processed are often riskier and require appropriate monitoring. For example, cobalt is of growing
interest for the auto industry due to its use in electric vehicle batteries. Stellantis participates in a variety of projects related to
materials research, notably to reduce or substitute critical raw materials with other more sustainable metals in high-voltage
batteries. We are a member of the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) to build capacity in the extended supply chain down
through the mine level. Activities to conduct voluntary due diligence efforts are underway with our suppliers. We have
used the Cobalt Reporting Template (CRT) from the RMI to begin preliminary data gathering. Stellantis is conducting a due
diligence program on these raw materials, with a priority on Cobalt and Lithium, in partnership with RCS Global . For more information refer to 7.1.4
As announced in the Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan, to secure lithium availability, Stellantis signed a binding agreement
with Vulcan Energy to supply battery grade lithium hydroxide in Europe for use in electrified vehicles.
PRESS RELEASE
On June 24, 2022, Stellantis announced a €50 million (A$76 million) equity investment in Vulcan Energy Resources Limited Stellantis Secures Low Emissions Lithium
Supply for North American Electric Vehicle
and an extension of the original binding offtake agreement signed in November 2021 for supply in Europe from 5 years
Production from Controlled Thermal Resources
to 10 years (up to 99,000 tons per year). The equity investment will go towards Vulcan’s planned production expansion https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
drilling in its producing Upper Rhine Valley Brine Field. These are subject to customary closing conditions, including press-releases/2022/june/stellantis-secures-low-
emissions-lithium-supply-for-north-american-electric-
regulatory approvals . vehicle-production-from-controlled-thermal-resources
PRESS RELEASE
Vulcan’s Zero Carbon Lithium™ Project in the Upper Rhine Valley in Germany uses geothermal energy to produce battery-
Stellantis Expands Relationship with Vulcan
quality lithium hydroxide from brine without the use of fossil fuels and minimal water usage, reducing the generation of
Energy Becoming Shareholder in Decarbonized
carbon in the battery metals supply chain. The location in Germany, proximal to Stellantis’ European gigafactories, will Lithium Company
allow to reduce the transport distance of lithium chemicals. https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/press-releases/
2022/june/stellantis-expands-relationship-
with-vulcan-energy-becoming-shareholder-in- To secure North American electric vehicle production, On June 2, 2022, Stellantis announced the signing of a binding
decarbonized-lithium-company
offtake agreement with Controlled Thermal Resources Ltd. (“CTR”) for CTR to supply battery grade lithium hydroxide for
use in Stellantis’ North American electrified vehicle production (up to 25,000 tons per year).
Beyond lithium sourcing, Stellantis N.V is paving its way to a secured sourcing of other raw materials:
■ Nickel sulphate:
● a non-binding Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) has been signedwith Alliance Nickel Limited for the future PRESS RELEASE
Stellantis Signs Non-Binding MOU with GME
sale of quantities of battery grade nickel and cobalt sulphate products from the NiWest Nickel-Cobalt Project in
for Future Offtake of Battery Grade Nickel and
Western Australia (NiWest). This project is expected to produce approximately 90,000 tpa (tons per annum) of
Cobalt Sulphate
battery grade nickel and cobalt sulphate for the electric vehicle market . https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
press-releases/2022/october/stellantis-signs-non-
binding-mou-with-gme-for-future-offtake-of-
battery-grade-nickel-and-cobalt-sulphate
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
■ A five-year supply agreement - starting in 2025 - has been signed in January 2023 with Finland-based Terrafame Ltd. PRESS RELEASE
Stellantis and Terrafame Agree on Low-Carbon
Due to its unique production technology, the carbon footprint of the nickel sulphate produced by Terrafame is among
Nickel Sulphate Supply for Electric Vehicle Batteries
the smallest in the industry . https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/press-releases/2023/
january/stellantis-and-terrafame-agree-on-low-
■ Manganese sulphate: carbon-nickel-sulphate-supply-for-electric-vehicle-
batteries?utm_source=EN-Press%20Releases&utm_
medium=email&utm_campaign=A361_Stellantis%20
A binding agreement has been signed in January 2023 with Element 25 for supply of battery grade, high purity
and%20Terrafame%20Agree%20on%20Low-
manganese sulphate monohydrate to Stellantis for use in electric vehicle (EV) battery packs. The five-year agreement Carbon%20Nickel%20Sulphate%20Supply%20for%20
Electric%20Vehicle%20Batteries_18012023
calls for shipments to begin in 2026, a total volume of 45 kilotons, and options to extend the supply term and volumes.
Element 25 will source the material from its Butcherbird project in Western Australia and plans to construct a processing PRESS RELEASE
Stellantis Signs Binding Agreement with
facility in the United States. Stellantis will make an equity investment in Element 25 . Element 25 Limited for Manganese Sulphate
Supply for Electric Vehicle Batteries
Battery recycling https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/press-releases/2023/
january/stellantis-signs-binding-agreement-with-
To make EVs climate change mitigation solutions as effective as possible, Stellantis strives to develop a global circular economy element-25-limited-for-manganese-sulphate-supply-
for-electric-vehicle-batteries?utm_source=EN-Press%20
for high-voltage batteries from hybrid and electric vehicles: a re-pair strategy with 21 e-repair centers, a re-man strategy Releases&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=A355_
with our remanufacturing center in Rüsselsheim and re-use strategy with Second-life projects. Engaging partnerships with Stellantis%20Signs%20Binding%20Agreement%20
with%20Element%2025%20Limited%20for%20
recyclers is a way for Stellantis to secure access to secondary raw materials enabling the production of EVs. Manganese%20Sulphate%20Supply%20for%20
Electric%20Vehicle%20Batteries_09012023
Thus, battery recycling is embedded in Stellantis ambitions for circular economy development based on a “cradle-to-cradle”
model which will play a major role in reaching 2038 carbon net zero commitment . For more information refer to 6.1.7.6
2.5.3.2.3 Charging and energy strategy GRI 302-5
As charging operations is a crucial user experience aspect of e-mobility, Stellantis:
■ technologies contributing to a simple and seamless user experience: plug and charge feature (easy payment process),
high power charging (quick charge for long range journey), services facilitating the charging operations
■ the opportunity to make services for the grid, by the energy and power buffering capacity of the vehicles connected to it:
Smart charge functions and Vehicle-to-grid (V2G) generate value both for the customers and for the energy operators . PRESS RELEASE
“Arena del Futuro” Demonstrates Capability of
Charging service offering related to electric mobility Dynamic Inductive Recharging Technology for
Electric Vehicles
To ease the customer electric mobility experience and therefore support its LEV mix ramp up, Stellantis has developed a https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
press-releases/2022/june/arena-del-futuro-
complete service offering: demonstrates-capability-of-dynamic-inductive-
recharging-technology-for-electric-vehicles
■ a range of connected services:
● Trip Planner and Charging Pass services, to plan a trip and for easy charging at public charging stations
● Mobility Pass, to temporarily access other mobility solutions if the electric vehicle autonomy is not sufficient for a long trip
● Car Remote, to optimize the charge (charging management and air conditioning preconditioning).
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
■ new services available at home and in the commercial network: Charging points accessible
by "My easy Charge" app
● Private Charging: devices and installation;
> 130,000
● after sales: battery capacity certification, adapted roadside assistance, adapted service contracts;
● electric vehicle skilled contact center.
A partnership signed between Stellantis and Digital Charging Solutions GmbH, will provide Jeep 4xe or Fiat EV customers
access to the digital service “My easy Charge,” offering them a single provider for the largest charging network in the
world. With just one app and one single card, the charging solution will provide access to more than 130,000 charging
points in 21 European countries. A partnership was also formed between the Jeep Brand and Electrify America to install
solar charging stations on Jeep Trails in North America in March 2021.
The Company’s electric vehicles are already used in many urban carsharing services set up with communities and private
partners in numerous European cities . For more information refer to 4.1.3.2
An active role in contributing to affordable and clean mobility
Beyond its electric vehicle line up offer, Stellantis is also actively supporting access to an affordable and clean mobility
through a dedicated BEVs long-term rental program and e-Mobility program with Free2move eSolutions.
“Electric as You Go”: PRESS RELEASE
This new competitive long-term rental program designed by the e-Mobility Business Unit, Banque PSA Finance and Opel Stellantis introduces the offer “Electric As
You Go”: the new long-term rental program
Bank aims at providing an affordable driving experience. Started in France for private customers, this program allows them
dedicated to Battery Electric Vehicles
to change their old ICE vehicle to a BEV B-segment car from € 110 per month plus a cost of use at 7 cents per kilometer
(BEVs) designed to offer breakthrough
(with 500 kms minimum per month). This program will be extended to other full electric vehicles within the Company's competitive prices to Stellantis customers
portfolio shortly and is expected to expand to other countries in Europe. It offers the consumers the possibility to pay for https://www.media.stellantis.com/em-en/
e-mobility/press/stellantis-introduces-the-
their vehicle only when they are actually using it. Combined with the lower operational cost of BEVs, this initiative results
offer-electric-as-you-go-the-new-long-term-
in an innovative commercial offer that may contribute to accelerate a sustainable car parc renewal . rental-program-dedicated-to-battery-electric-
vehicles-bevs-designed-to-offer-breakthrough-
Free2move eSolutions: competitive-prices-to-stellantis-customers
In January 2021, Stellantis created Free2move eSolutions, a joint venture with NHOA (formerly Engie EPS, global player in
energy storage and active also in EV Fastcharging Infrastructure in Southern Europe), with the ambition to become a leader
in the European e-Mobility landscape. Free2move eSolutions has the ambition to support and ease the transition to electric
mobility by offering innovative and tailor-made electric solutions for both private and business actors of the value chain.
Through a digital and seamless journey across all product lines, the scope of Free2move eSolutions activities will range
from charging infrastructures (installation, servicing and operations), public and home charging subscriptions with
monthly fee, to battery life cycle management and advanced energy services such as Vehicle-to-Grid (V2G) integration
and energy management solutions to reduce the total cost of vehicle ownership.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
The joint venture between Stellantis and NHOA is expected to simplify the access to e-Mobility and aims to complement
Free2move’s current portfolio with a new set of offers 100% dedicated to electric mobility.
Free2move eSolutions also allowed the implementation of projects, such as the introduction of the exclusive Stellantis
easyWallbox, an easy-to-use plug-and-play charging unit, the recently launched Vehicle-to-Grid (V2G) pilot project
and the innovative customer-oriented energy packages. The newly created company offers a full suite of products and
solutions for EV customers such as residential, business and public charging infrastructures as well as green energy
packages. It enables customers to charge at home and at any public charging point across Europe with a subscription at
a fixed monthly rate.
Stellantis expanded the V2G project at the Mirafiori plant in Turin (Italy) to 25MW with 600 EVs connected. V2G technology
represents an opportunity to optimize vehicles’ operating costs for the customers’ benefit, as well as contributing to a
more sustainable electrical power delivery system. Experiments using this innovative technology have started with a
bidirectional charging solution, which both charges the car and returns power to the grid.
In addition, Stellantis’ partnership with NHOA is developing Atlante, a public Fast and Ultra-Fast Charging network in
Southern Europe. The network will be enabled by renewables and energy storage and 100% grid integrated. Free2move
eSolutions will act as turn-key technology provider and NHOA will develop the network. Approximately, 5,000 fast and
ultra-fast charging points should be installed by 2025 and 35,000 by 2030.
PRESS RELEASE
Rewarding customers for the environmentally conscious driving behaviors
e-Mobility by Stellantis presents with
Developed by the green-tech startup Kiri Technologies exclusively for e-Mobility by Stellantis, the system rewards New Kiri Technologies the innovative program
Fiat 500 drivers in 13 European countries based on their environmentally conscious driving behaviors with KiriCoin, a dedicated exclusively to New 500
customers, to reward sustainable driving
cryptocurrency that can be spent in a dedicated marketplace. Drivers can check the KiriCoin collected based on an eco:Score
https://www.media.stellantis.com/em-en/
obtained according to their driving style. Analysis of the driving style of New Fiat 500 customers has shown that the best e-mobility/press/e-mobility-by-stellantis-
participants in the contest drove up to 20% more efficiently than the average. This has a direct positive impact of 20% on presents-with-kiri-technologies-the-innovative-
program-dedicated-exclusively-to-new-500-
charging costs and on the range of the car. The drivers with the best scores receive exclusive extra rewards . customers-to-reward-sustainable-driving-emob
2.5.3.2.4 Battery technologies innovation: more energy density, faster to charge, less expensive GRI 302-5
Battery technology is key for customers’ acceptance of LEV vehicles since it drives the zero emission range for BEV and
PHEV, the charging time to provide a seamless long-range user experience, but also the cost of the system and its safety.
Thus, within the ACC joint-venture, Stellantis strives for innovation on battery technologies. The technologies covered include:
■ electrochemistry and cells design, with a specific focus on the next generation based on solid-state electrolytes;
■ pack design, including mechanical parts optimization, thermal management, wires;
■ software and Battery Management System (BMS) design.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
From 2024, Stellantis plans to base its electrification strategy on 2 battery technologies to offer a wider range of vehicles, PRESS RELEASE
to adapt to consumer needs and affordability constraints. These technologies are expected to enable energy density gains Stellantis Completes Investment Round
and therefore reduce the environmental footprint of the batteries. This dual chemistry strategy relies on: in Factorial, Further Accelerating
Electrification Push
■ a Nickel and Cobalt Free battery, that should enable an energy density between 400 and 500 Wh/L at cell level
https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
press-releases/2022/january/stellantis-
■ a Nickel based battery with an even higher energy density, between 600 and 700 Wh/L at cell level. completes-investment-round-in-factorial-
further-accelerating-electrification-push
From 2026, competitive solid-state batteries are expected to be introduced in Stellantis’ fleet. A first joint development
agreement has been signed with Factorial Energy to advance Factorials’ high-voltage traction solid-state battery
technology .
2.5.3.3 Mild & Hybrid Electric Vehicles (MHEV & HEV) GRI 302-5
Complementary to development of BEV offer, Stellantis is proposing mild hybrid and hybrid electric vehicles.
The mild hybrid technology combines a small electric motor with an ICE, in which the hybrid technology recovers the
energy generated on braking to reuse it for vehicle motive power, thus cutting down on fuel use and reducing CO
2
emission up to 15% compared to a vehicle powered entirely by an ICE .
MHEV technologies are already available on several Stellantis models for some powertrains:
■ Jeep Renegade, Jeep Compass, Jeep Wrangler, Fiat 500x, Fiat Tipo, Alfa Romeo Tonale and Ram 1500 - marketed as
“eTorque” - are equipped with 48V technology
■ Fiat 500, Fiat Panda, Lancia Ypsilon (in Europe) and Maserati Ghibli are equipped with belt-starter generator solutions.
For more information on
From 2023 onwards, a 48-volt MHEV solution using electrified Dual Clutch Transmission (e-DCT) gearbox, developed the joint-venture refer to 2.5.3.2.2
with Punch Powertrain, will be widely deployed on Stellantis lineup .
PRESS RELEASE
For the North American market, new investments for a total of $99 million have been announced in three plants to speed https://media.stellantisnorthamerica.com/
up the electrification of the future North American lineup. These investments will allow to provide 1.6-liter, I-4 turbocharged newsrelease.do?id=23927&mid=#:~:text=%2D%20
Stellantis%20announced%20today%20that%20
engines, based on current Stellantis production in Europe, predisposed for hybridized applications from 2025 . it,Etobicoke%20Casting%20Plant%20in%20Toronto
2.5.3.4 Efficient vehicles: a holistic approach to design vehicles GRI 302-5
The company aims to leverage all the features of its vehicles in order to improve their efficiency, reduce energy
consumption and CO emissions. Beyond the technologies related to engines and fuels, Stellantis continues to develop
2
technical levers that enable energy consumption gains on both electrified and ICE vehicles such as weight, aerodynamics,
vehicle architecture, materials, tire rolling resistance, losses through mechanical friction (brakes, rolling, bearings, etc.),
electric consumption (sensors, actuators, engines), comfort features (air conditioning system, etc.), safety features and
driver assistance features.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.5.3.4.1 Weight: the virtuous cycle of reducing weight PRESS RELEASE
While we work to optimize vehicle architecture, we also focus on the choice of materials. High-tensile steel is preferred Stellantis Invests €33 Million in Global
Testing Hubs for Cutting-Edge Engineering
because of its superior strength. However, whenever technically feasible and cost effective, choosing lower-density materials,
https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
such as aluminum, composite materials and thermoplastics instead of steel, can reduce vehicle weight. For example, the
press-releases/2022/june/stellantis-invests-33-
2021 Jeep Wrangler features lightweight, high strength aluminum doors, hinges, hood, fenders and windshield frame, as well million-in-global-testing-hubs-for-cutting-edge-
engineering
as a magnesium swing gate, all of which help boost fuel economy. Innovative process techniques provide further gains (heat
stamping, laser welding, joining structure, etc.) by helping reduce the weight of the car body while improving resistance to impact.
2.5.3.4.2 Limited air resistance and rolling resistance
Aerodynamics and rolling resistance have an impact on fuel and electrical consumption and the Company endeavors to
continually optimize these levers. For instance, since 2020 in Europe active air shutters, under body deflectors, class A efficient
tires, lower than 5.9 kg/T, have been widely deployed on vehicles in order to reduce the CO consumption for our customers.
2
In order to further improve the overall design and the energy efficiency of its upcoming models, Stellantis has decided to
invest €33 million in its test facilities located in Turin (Italy) and Auburn Hills (U.S.) for its electric and autonomous vehicles
development .
TECHNOLOGIES FOR EFFICIENT ELECTRIC VEHICLES
Aerodynamic
Extended
Rolling resistance
underbody panel
A+ class low rolling
Electric consumption
resistance tires Eco LED lighting
Electric gearbox
Aerodynamic
rear spoiler
Electric motor
Wheel deflector
Aerodynamic
wheels
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.5.3.4.3 Better management of onboard electricity Reducing electricity
consumption in vehicles
Reducing electricity consumption in vehicles is a way to lower energy consumption on conventional and electric vehicles.
is a way to lower energy
For instance, in Europe, the Company decided to deploy the following levers:
consumption
■ optimizing the operating phases of the alternator through an intelligent control system (charge the alternator at times
when fuel consumption is lower), lever incorporated into the new generation of engines
■ optimizing the alternator’s efficiency, with the deployment of ultra-high efficiency alternators (80% efficiency compared
to less than 70% before)
■ high charge acceptance on 12-volt battery technology to optimize alternator recovery strategy;
■ using specific Light Emitting Diode (LED) lights, widely on the vehicle lines, to optimize the electricity consumption of
the lighting functions.
2.5.3.4.4 Reducing the environmental impact of refrigerants
European Directive 2006/40/EC gradually phases out the use of refrigerants in vehicle air conditioning systems, that
provide air conditioning in the passenger compartment, which have a global warming potential (GWP) of more than 150
CO-eq. This regulation has applied to all models on the EU market that weigh less than 3.5 tons since 2017.
2
New types of vehicle produced by Stellantis use refrigerants that meet all regulatory standards. For example, the Peugeot
508, Fiat 500 and Opel Corsa no longer use fluoride gas R134 a.
In order to reduce environmental impacts, quantities of refrigerant filled in European vehicles were reduced. This good
practice was partly rolled out in other regions. Stellantis also carries out refrigerant leakage inspections in assembly plants
to check the tightness of the vehicle air conditioning system.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.5.4 DETAILED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS TCFD.Ma GRI 3-3 GRI 305-3
SASB-410a.1
2.5.4.1 Sales-weighted6 average fleet fuel economy and CO emissions (Tank-to-Wheel)7
2
Regulated region Category Volumes* Results
2022 1,828,813 105.5 gCO2/km
M1 (Passenger Cars)
European Union 27 2021 2,141,837 114.8 gCO2/km
+ Norway + Iceland
(gCO 2/km)**
N1 (Light Commercial Vehicles)
2022 337,887 168 gCO2/km
2021 446,429 189 gCO2/km
2022 161,616 27.2 mpg
Passenger Cars domestic
2021 201,790 27.7 mpg
United States 2022 12,586 30.7 mpg
Passenger Cars import
(mpg)*** 2021 25,208 32.3 mpg
2022 1,160,416 27.0 mpg
Light Duty Trucks
2021 1,447,313 26.9 mpg
2022 645,628 1.7MJ/km
Brazil (MJ/km)**** Total Stellantis
2021 633,139 1.9 MJ/km
2022 91,231 5.4 L/100km
Total Domestic
China 2021 102,553 6.7 L/100km
(L/100km)***** 2022 19,142 9.1 L/100km
Total Import
2021 21,723 10.1 L/100km
2022 110,373 6.0 L/100km
Total Stellantis
2021 124,276 7.3 L/100km
* Considering registrations, shipments, productions or custom clearance according to local regulations based on Stellantis operational reporting tools.
** The European Commission imposes standardized emission requirements on vehicles sold. Each automobile manufacturer must meet a specific
sales-weighted fleet average target for CO2 emissions which is related to vehicles weight average. Results in table 2.5.4.1 are provided without
eco-innovation gain , excluding Maserati results (which is under small volume derogation and reports separately to European authorities). Since 2021,
the measurement is based on WLTP procedure, according to EU 2019/631 regulation. The M1 result including eco-innovation gain is 103.3 g CO2/km.
*** In the U.S., vehicle fuel efficiency is measured by fuel economy expressed in miles per gallon (mpg). An increase in fuel economy corresponds to an
increase in vehicle efficiency and a corresponding reduction of fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. Each automobile manufacturer must meet a specific
sales-weighted fleet average target, which is related to vehicles footprint average, according to U.S. Code of Federal Regulations 40 CFR 86.1818-12
and procedure 40 CFR Part 600. Model Year results in table 2.5.4.1 are provided without air conditioning and off-cycle technologies credits.
**** The Brazilian regulation (Rota 2030, Law 13,755) imposes requirements on the energy consumption for vehicles sold. Each automobile
manufacturer must meet a specific target related to vehicle weight. Results in table 2.5.4.1 are provided without off-cycle credits.
***** With respect to Corporate Average Fuel Consumption (CAFC) in China, each automobile manufacturer must meet a specific fleet average fuel
consumption target related to vehicle weight. Since 2021, the measurement is based on WLTC cycle, according to GB 27999. Results in table 2.5.4.1 are
provided without off-cycle technologies and LEV super-credits.
6 Considering registrations, shipments, productions or custom clearance according to local regulations based on Stellantis operational reporting tools
7 The estimated average electrical consumption of our LEV in 2022 is 14.7 kWh/100 km in EU (WLTP), with an average weight of 1,589 kg; in the U.S
(EPA) is 38.0 kWh/100 km, with an average weight of 2,364 kg; and in China is 25.6 kWh/100 km, with an average weight of 2,304 kg.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
SASB-410a.2
2.5.4.2 Sales mix by energy type
China and India &
Enlarged Europe North America South America Middle East & Africa Stellantis Total as a % of total sales
Asia Pacific
2022 280,361 13 1,003 3,816 2,974 288,167 4.9%
Electric (BEV)*
2021 202,110 251 2,005 1,973 206,339 3.1%
2022 147,512 70,990 627 964 3,959 224,052 3.8%
Plug-in Hybrid (PHEV)
2021 125,429 55,734 36 838 5,344 187,381 2.8%
2022 427,873 71,003 1,630 4,780 6,933 512,219 8.8%
LEV (BEV+PHEV)
2021 327,539 55,734 287 2,843 7,317 393,720 6.0%
2022 1,215,381 1,567,272 224,000 215,647 171,050 3,393,350 58.0%
Gasoline**
2021 1,466,911 1,745,378 179,434 214,651 207,478 3,813,852 57.8%
2022 923,540 159,961 106,414 193,698 25,614 1,409,227 24.1%
Diesel
2021 1,308,245 211,698 125,607 193,191 25,620 1,864,361 28.2%
2022 22,532 1,990 150 24,672 0.4%
CNG/LPG
2021 26,236 638 26,874 0.4%
2022 512,372 512,372 8.8%
Flex Fuels
2021 505,162 505,162 7.6%
2022 2,589,326 1,798,236 844,416 416,115 203,747 5,851,840 100%
TOTAL
2021 3,128,931 2,012,810 810,490 411,323 240,415 6,603,969 100%
Sales figures are “sales to customers” based on Stellantis operational reporting tools; Maserati sales are included in the markets where they are sold.
* Including 13,473 fully electric mobility devices (Citroën AMI and Opel ROCKS-e).
** Including 311,637 MHEV (48V & BSG) worldwide in 2022.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.5.4.3 Carbon footprint breakdown per scope and categories of GHG protocol
M tons CO eq Percentage
2
COMPANY ACTIVITIES (direct and indirect emissions)
2022 1.5 0.3%
Scope 1
2021 1.7 0.3%
2022 1.9 0.5%
Scope 2*
2021 2.2 0.4%
UPSTREAM ACTIVITIES SCOPE 3 (Indirect emissions)
2022 38.8 8.6%
Purchasing 1. Purchased goods and services
2021 43.5 8.3%
2022 1.4 0.3%
Upstream transport 4. Upstream transportation and distribution
2021 1.2 0.2%
2022 0.03 0.01%
Work-related travels 6. Business travel
2021 0.005 0.001%
DOWNSTREAM ACTIVITIES SCOPE 3 (Indirect emissions)
2022 1.1 0.2%
Downstream transport 9. Downstream transportation and distribution
2021 1.2 0.2%
395.5 87.8%
2022 WtT: 57.8 12.8%
TtW: 337.7 75.0%
Use of vehicles sold 11. Use of sold product
465.6 88.3%
2021 WtT: 67.6 12.8%
TtW: 398.0 75,5%
2022 8.4 1.9%
Vehicle maintenance 11. Use of sold product
2021 9.5 1.8%
2022 2.0 0.4%
Product end-of-life 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products
2021 2.3 0.5%
2022 450.6
Total
2021 527.2
* Market-based
WtW= Well-to-Wheel WtT= Well-to-Tank TtW= Tank-to-Wheel
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.6 Industrial and sites carbon footprint
Moving forward into a carbon-efficient production system is the second dimension of Stellantis’ decarbonization strategy. GRI 3-3
The levers presented in this section aim to enable Stellantis to meet its Dare Forward 2030 objective of reducing its
absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 50% by 2025 compared to 2021, on the path to carbon net zero in 2038.
This chapter focuses on energy and climate-related aspects of its manufacturing facilities, offices, warehouses, retail
For more Stellantis’ environmental
operations and other stationary operations . management system refer to 6.3
2.6.1 POLICIES TO EXECUTE THE STRATEGY
The Industrial manufacturing divisions is focusing on Stellantis Environmental and Energy policy to contribute to a
decarbonized economy by achieving net zero emissions within its activities worldwide (scope 1 and 2) by 2038 . For the presentation of the policy
elements refer to 2.6.3
Stellantis is committed to actions that preserve the environment, by implementing initiatives that minimize energy
consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and other pollutants. Such initiatives include using alternative and renewable PRESS RELEASE
energy sources, supporting the purchase of energy-efficient products and services and designing manufacturing Dare Forward 2030: Stellantis’ Blueprint for
processes for improvements in energy performance. Cutting-Edge Freedom of Mobility
https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
The analysis of our industrial and site CO 2 performance showed that the main emissions factors were: press-releases/2022/march/dare-forward-2030-
stellantis-blueprint-for-cutting-edge-freedom-
■ Energy consumption in the manufacturing plants (including processes and building systems) of which foundries and of-mobility
paint shops are main contributors
■ The electricity source type consumed by the manufacturing plants.
Therefore, Stellantis seeks solutions in its manufacturing processes that enable reductions in energy consumption, with
a particular focus on decreasing the use of fossil fuels. This involves an energy management approach that notably
maps the energy performance of all manufacturing plants and identifies the areas in need of improvement. This also
involves associated short-term capital expenditure to reduce energy consumption. Another lever is to increase the share
of renewable energies used by the Company to further reduce its carbon footprint.
Stellantis’ ambition is to implement green electricity on a broader scale. Therefore Stellantis has signed contracts in Europe
and United States on Photovoltaic and Wind parks which will operate on -and off-site.
Energy efficiency will play a key-role in our strategy, the main levers to manage industrial greenhouse gas emissions are:
■ Managing energy use in manufacturing activities For more information refer to 2.6.3.2
■ Relying on low CO 2 energy sources attributed to: For more information refer to 2.6.3.3
● Green Electricity contracts For more information refer to 2.6.3.2.1
● Green self-generated electricity projects For more information refer to 2.6.3.3
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
In an effort to manage energy use, we are defining our joint Energy Management System which is an integral part of
the implementation of the Stellantis Production Way (SPW) . This managerial approach begins with an initial stage For more information refer to 6.3.3
of staff involvement at all levels including the machine operator level, targeting the reduction of energy losses during
non-production periods. The following stage consists of developing solutions to reduce consumption during production
periods. As solutions are developed, best practices are shared and rolled out across the plants. Stellantis’ environmental
and energy management policies focus on methodologies and processes related to the optimization of energy use. Stellantis plants ISO 50001 certified
at the end of 2022 representing
At the end of 2022, the majority of the Stellantis plants were ISO 50001 certified, representing approximately 74% of
the Company’s total energy consumption versus 77% in 2021. Accredited third parties certify the Company’s Energy 74%
Management System. This management system supports our efforts to achieve a steady and consistent reduction in the
environmental and energy impact of manufacturing processes.
of total energy consumptions
The attainment of Stellantis’ GHG emissions reduction targets are founded on five fundamentals, which are already
well-established:
■ Being mindful of regulatory compliance and transparency in relationship with administration bodies
■ Involving staff at all levels of the organization
■ Rolling out an Energy Management System at the manufacturing sites, taking into account ISO 50001 and ISO 14001
requirements and recommending that suppliers maintain similar management systems
■ Implementing production methods which incorporate the best practices that have adopted low cost and energy efficient
processes from the design stage onwards, covering various aspects of production (logistics, maintenance, production)
■ Employing shared best practices in these production methods to optimize consumption and emissions.
Main levers to reach carbon net zero for scopes 1 and 2
PERIOD
Short term 2025 ▪ Energy management in all plants
▪ Energy efficient projects
▪ Site compression and improvement of industrial footprint
Medium term 2030 ▪ Use and production of renewable energies
Long term 2038 ▪ Technical innovations (e.g., Hydrogen, Power to gas)
▪ CO capture and storage
2
▪ Compensation of residual emissions
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.6.2 ORGANIZATION AND RESOURCES
GRI 3-3
Energy Domain
Stellantis through its Stellantis Production Way (SPW) organization has implemented during 2022 a specific plan called
“SPW in action”.
The purpose of the Energy Domain is to define, deploy and improve our Energy Management System: a system to monitor,
control, and optimize the energy performance in our plants and in our buildings, based on continuous improvement.
Three of the most important fundamentals of the domain are:
■ Energy Efficiency
■ Renewable Energy
■ Energy Business Club
Energy efficiency implies that we need to keep a constant eye on the energy consumption of every machine and all
equipment. KWh is our main driver. Elimination of waste and losses will protect us against price volatility.
The use of Renewable Energy is a must to achieve our CO emissions target announced in Dare Forward 2030.
2
The implementation of solar panels is intended to support this goal.
The Energy Business Club is a forum where plants share their best practices. We identify the performance gap, deliver
the benchmark, ranking the best plants and support the ambitious target setting.
Facilities have a dedicated Site utility manager and a team in charge of the energy management system. Teams on site
supported by central energy team, declare that around 220 people are involved.
They monitor energy consumption, conduct audits, identify potential savings and drive energy reduction projects . For more information refer to 2.6.3
Investment Initiatives
In 2022, more than €28 million versus €6.3 million in 2021 is invested in energy savings which is approximately €4.9 versus
€1.1 in 2021 per vehicle produced . For more information refer to 2.6.3.4
All plants have CO reduction targets and are required to present roadmaps to reach net zero emissions and present yearly
2
progress.
The decision-making process which allows capital investments in carbon reduction projects takes carbon price into
account as well as the alignment with the decarbonization goals.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
Participation in the CO emission allowance scheme
2
European regulation system
Stellantis is part of the CO allowance trading plan implemented by European Directive No. 2003/87/EC, also called the
2
EU Emission Trading Scheme (ETS) regulation amended for combustion operations (heating and processes) of its largest
plants and for two of its casting plants. There are 20 sites involved in the fourth phase of the CO emission allowance plan
2
scheduled from 2021 to 2030. Price per ton of CO increased from €25 in 2019 to around €80 in 2022. Stellantis expects a
2
further price increase in the upcoming years.
Canadian regulations system
Canadian Carbon Emissions Levy: Federal Output Based Pricing System (OBPS).
A carbon levy program that imposes “carbon” costs on all fossil fuel-based energy consumption across Canada.
Stellantis two Assembly Plants and Casting Plant located in Canada do not pay for a significant portion of their carbon
emissions under an OBPS program design feature intended to protect Emissions-Intensive and Trade-Exposed industry
(EITE) and help businesses transition to the program. Unit Costs of Carbon rise every year from $20 Canadian dollars
(CAD) (€13.50) in 2019 to $50 CAD (€36.50) per ton in 2022. The Ontario Provincial Emissions Performance System came
into effect in 2022. The Emissions Performance Standard (EPS) will charge for Carbon emissions according to the Annual
Emission Limit (AEL) which is the amount of allowable emissions in tons of CO-eq for each Automotive Facilities. AEL will
2
be declining between 2022 and 2030 and is expected to continue to decline annually by 1.5% through to 2030.
OBPS facilities will have to pay an increasing carbon cost for every ton of CO-eq over the AEL. The increase is expected
2
to be $15 CAD (€10.95) every year (in line with the Federal program).
2.6.3 MAIN INITIATIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND RESULTS GRI 3-3
Vehicle manufacturing uses energy for a wide range of industrial processes including casting, machining, paint curing,
heat treatment, etc., as well as lighting and heating of buildings.
Stellantis has completed a thorough review of its energy consumption and energy efficiency across the Company.
A consumption control plan was developed to map the performance of the largest plants in order to identify the lines of
action necessary for a full overhaul of their energy patterns.
The plants continue to implement energy saving activities, based on the best practices shared between the two former
For more detail on the actions to reduce
companies. Each energy reduction project is validated based on its CO 2 impact and return on investment. Once validated energy consumption in production
and implemented at one of the Company’s sites, initiatives that prove successful are gradually rolled out to all plants . processes refer to 2.6.3.2.1
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
GAS CRISIS DUE TO THE GEOPOLITICAL SITUATION
Due to the current geopolitical situation, the cost of energy has experienced a sharp rise in prices during 2022.
To reduce the impact of this increase in energy costs, Stellantis has implemented a very aggressive
consumption reduction plan.
Especially in non-productive periods (e.g. weekends and holiday periods) a rigorous monitoring of energy
consumption was carried out in particular through comparing between different plants and disseminating
best practices.
Beside regular energy efficiency action plan, additional actions made in recent years during the shutdown
periods for Covid-19 crisis have been maintained and further implemented.
The Energy Teams worked their way through each major energy using sub-system, such as compressed
air, chillers, HVAC, boilers, lighting and process systems, to gain access to information concerning the idle
condition of each of the systems.
The Energy Teams used specific information gateways to those systems which could be interrogated
remotely and analyzed.
Many energy projects are in the phase study and some specific investments are already approved - e.g., a new
biomass boiler will be in the operational phase during 2023 at the Trnava plant (Slovakia).
2.6.3.1 Main achievements on GHG emission reduction GRI 302-1 GRI 305-1 GRI 305-2
In 2022, Scope 1 emissions amounted to 1,526,757 tons of CO-eq versus 1,641,028 tons of CO-eq in 2021. GRI 305-4
2 2
The scope 1 has reduced of 7% thanks the less usage of natural gas, despite the inclusion in the reporting year of the CO
2
by fugitive emissions derived to unintentional releases during the use of refrigeration and air conditioning equipment.
Scope 2 emissions amounted to 1,916,359 tons of CO-eq versus 2,233,459 tons of CO-eq in 2021.
2 2
The scope 2 has reduced of more than 14% thanks to the increase in the use of renewable electricity. The CO emitted
2
resulted in 3,443,124 tons of CO-eq versus 3,874,486* tons of CO-eq emitted in 2021 this corresponds to 0.597 tons of
2 2
CO-eq (Scope 1 + 2) per vehicle produced versus 0.681 tons of CO-eq in 2021.
2 2
* Revised from 2021 Annual Report in the Non-Financial Information section.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
The breakdown of GHG emission is as follows: Electricity coming from renewable
or decarbonized sources by 2025
by GHG, o/w direct, indirect market-based, incl. from renewable sources
50%
44%
SCOPE 1
EMISSIONS 42%
2022
56%
SCOPE 2
EMISSIONS 58% 2021
This graph shows the scopes of CO 2 emissions for Stellantis facilities . For Details of Scope 1 and 2 emissions
refer to 2.6.4.1
Placing short, medium and long-term quantitative targets on the share of electricity consumed from renewable sources
enables Stellantis to define and track alignment with a clear roadmap of how to attain its Scope 1 and 2 CO emissions
2
reduction targets. By 2025, Stellantis will use 50% of electricity coming from renewable or decarbonized sources.
The target is for the share to increase to 100% by 2030.
In 2022, the share of decarbonized electricity used by the Company amounted to 3,512 GWh versus 2,940 GWh in
2021. The percentage of decarbonized electricity resulted in 55 percent of the electricity consumed versus 45 percent
in 2021, overachieving the initial 2025 target to use 50% of electricity coming from renewable or decarbonized sources.
Decarbonized electricity includes renewable electricity (1,698 GWh) representing 27 percent of the total consumed
electricity versus 18 percent (1,170 GWh) of the total consumed electricity in 2021.
The share of renewable electricity comes directly from electricity suppliers.
The 1,698,486 MWh of electricity consumed from renewable sources were generated by hydropower, solar power,
biomass and wind power and from other renewable sources such as geothermal and marine power.
A science-based roadmap for CO Scope 1 and 2 emissions to reach Net Zero in 2038
2
Stellantis has defined its CO emission reduction roadmap and targets for scopes 1 and 2 in accordance with Science Based
2
Target initiative (SBTi) methodology and aligned with 1.5°C scenario.
Having 2021 as a baseline, the target is to reduce emissions from scope 1 and 2 by 50% in 2025, by 75% in 2030 and
reaching carbon net zero, with single digit percent compensation of residual emissions, by 2038.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.6.3.2 Main initiative on GHG emission reduction GRI 3-3 GRI 305-5
The following sections detail the initiatives that enable the majority of industrial and sites CO emissions reductions.
2
ENERGY SCHEMES TO CUT CO EMISSIONS
2
LOW CO ENERGY SCHEMES AVOIDED CO EMISSIONS
2 2
100% GREEN ELECTRICITY CONTRACTS
129,534
Own consumption Aspern (Austria); Teksid Aluminium, Itauna, Jaboatão dos Guararapes tons of CO -eq
of renewable energy (Brazil); Trnava (Slovakia), Grugliasco Mould Shop (Italy); Madrid, Vigo and 2
avoided
Zaragoza (Spain).
SOLAR SELF-GENERATED ELECTRICITY 2,617
Balocco and Pomigliano R&D Center, Cento, Pratola Serra, Mirafiori and tons of CO 2-eq
Self-generation of Mopar European headquarter in Rivalta (Italy). avoided
ZERO
renewable energy
EMISSION 2
SOLAR SELF-GENERATED HEAT
ENERGY tons of CO -eq
2
Pratola Serra (Italy)
avoided
SOLAR ELECTRICITY GENERATED AT OUR SITES
Sochaux (France); Cassino (Italy); Kaiserslautern, Rüsselsheim (Germany); 23,327
Madrid, Zaragoza (Spain). tons of CO -eq
2
Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) signed in Mangualde (Portugal); avoided
Third party ownership Zaragoza (Spain)
and/or consumption of
electricity generated
at our sites
OTHER CO
2
EMISSION WASTE HEAT FROM FOUNDRY PROCESS TRANSFERRED TO A 2,727
REDUCTION NEARBY DISTRICT tons of CO -eq
PLANS ON 2
STELLANTIS Charleville-Mézières (France) avoided
SITES
TROPER
ETAMILC
- EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.6.3.2.1 Low-carbon energy consumption Green Electricity contracts
led to the avoidance of
In 2022, the plants in Itauna, Jaboatão dos Guararapes, Porto Real (Brazil), Trnava (Slovakia), Aspern (Austria), Grugliasco
Mould Shop (Italy), Madrid, Vigo and Zaragoza (Spain) sourced 100% green electricity. The 100% Green Electricity contracts 129,534
tons
led to the avoidance of 129,534 tons of CO-eq.
2
of CO -eq
Stellantis has approved a new project supply for renewable electricity in Michigan (U.S.) through the DTE-MIGreenPower 2
voluntary renewable energy program, developed with the supplier DTE Energy.
The project provides for the supply of 400 MWp of photovoltaic electricity guaranteed through a Virtual Power Purchase
Agreement (VPPA) starting from 2026 at a latest. The signing of this contract represents an important step towards on
the decarbonization of the manufacturing activities based in North America. Stellantis’ CO emissions will be reduced
2
annually by approximately 670,000 tons of CO-eq. The agreement is subject to obtaining relevant regulatory approvals . PRESS RELEASE
2
In South America, Stellantis works to measure, manage and reduce the annual GHG emissions produced by the daily Stellantis Partners With DTE Energy
to Add 400 Megawatts of New Solar
activities of the plants through an emission inventory verified by third parties. The reduction of emissions is the result of
Projects in Michigan Through DTE’s
the combination of actions focused on energy efficiency, use of energy from a renewable source and substitution of fossil MIGreenPower Program
fuel for ethanol and electricity in motor-propulsion. https://media.stellantisnorthamerica.com/
newsrelease.do?id=24505&mid=1
The effort to reduce emissions gradually extends to the supply chain and dealership networks, through actions that
seek to meet the objectives established in the Stellantis’ long-term strategic plan Dare Forward 2030. Stellantis was
also recognized by the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program with Gold Seal for the completion and certification of the GHG
emissions inventory.
Completing an inventory of emission sources is a key step in the roadmap to achieving carbon net zero by 2038.
The wood furnace in the Vesoul (France) plant produced 20,087 MWh in 2022 (6,653 tons of CO-eq) by burning wood
2
packaging waste generated on site.
This action reduces waste transportation and avoids fossil fuel emissions.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
PRESS RELEASE
IMPACT OF THE ELECTRIFICATION STRATEGY Stellantis Announces $3.6 Billion CAD
Investment for Its Canadian Operations to
Stellantis is driving its initiatives under consideration of local circumstances to identify most appropriate approach. Accelerate Electrification Plans, Secures
In parallel to our electrification programs, initiatives for decarbonization of our facilities are being developed, as Future of Windsor and Brampton Plants
illustrated in the following example:
https://media.stellantisnorthamerica.com/
Ellesmere Port (UK) is on track to become Stellantis’ first manufacturing site dedicated to battery electric LCV and newsrelease.do?id=23747&mid=
passenger car models for Vauxhall, Opel, Peugeot and Citroën. Stellantis has planned a £100 million (€114 million)
investment, supported by the UK government, to secure an all-electric future for the plant. The goal at the Ellesmere PRESS RELEASE
Port plant is to be self-sufficient for electricity by mid-decade. The plant is currently being transformed and the
Transformation in Action: Trémery-Metz
production activities are planned to start again prior Q2 2023.
Powertrain Plants in France Support
Stellantis has planned $3.6 billion CAD (€2.65 billion ) investment for its Canadian Operations to accelerate Stellantis’ Electrified Portfolio
electrification plans .
https://www.media.stellantis.com/em-en/
Announcement supports company’s long-term strategic plan Dare Forward 2030: corporate-communications/press/transformation-
in-action-tremery-metz-powertrain-plants-in-
Windsor Assembly Plant will be transformed to support production of a new multi-energy vehicle (MEV) architecture france-support-stellantis-electrified-portfolio
that will provide battery-electric capability for multiple models. The plant will have maximum flexibility to adjust
production volumes as needed to meet changing market demand over the next decade.
Brampton Assembly Plant will be retooled and fully modernized, the plant will introduce an all-new, flexible
architecture to support the Company’s electrification plans
The upgrades at Trémery-Metz (France) strengthen Stellantis’ powertrain manufacturing capabilities in battery electric,
plug-in hybrid (PHEV) and hybrid vehicles, supporting society’s need for clean, safe, and affordable mobility and easing
the transition from internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicles to BEVs.
Through investments in two key joint ventures at Trémery-Metz (France), Stellantis has deployed a vertical integration
strategy designed to increase control of the global electrification value chain.
2.6.3.2.2 Low-carbon energy generation
To increase the share of self-produced green energy, in 2021 Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) were signed in Zaragoza,
Spain (23,000 MWh) and at the Mangualde plant in Portugal (4,000 MWh). These contracts stipulated the installation
of solar power panels on the plant premises. Electricity production started in 2021. Photovoltaic panels were installed
with the support of the Company’s partners in Sochaux (France), Kaiserslautern and Rüsselsheim (Germany), Madrid and
Zaragoza (Spain) plants. The CO emissions reduction is estimated at 23,327 tons of CO-eq per year.
2 2
The self-production of renewable electricity at the Zaragoza plant is Spain’s largest renewable self-generation
project. The photovoltaic installation, developed and executed by Prosolia Energy, consists of 34,800 photovoltaic
modules installed over a 163,000 m2 surface. The extended project’s capacity, from 8.6 MW up to 16 MW, is sufficient
to provide 30% of the plant’s annual electricity consumption and achieve an additional reduction of 2000 tons
of CO-eq. Therefore, Stellantis Zaragoza is capable of generating and obtaining its own “clean” energy, increasing its
2
competitiveness in a market of rising electricity prices. At the same time, it fulfills its purpose of reducing carbon emissions,
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
avoiding more than 4.2 thousand tons of CO 2-eq. In addition, the Zaragoza plant is certified according to ISO 50001 PRESS RELEASE
standards and on the path to implementing the Stellantis Production Way sustainable efficiency model . Stellantis Hosts President Rebelo de
Sousa at Mangualde Plant to Celebrate
In Mirafiori plant, a photovoltaic system was installed with a total power of 5.1 MWp in the logistic parking area and
60th Anniversary and Present Sustainable
occupies an area of approximately 27,000 m2. The project consists of approximately 12,000 photovoltaic panels and is able
Future Projects
to produce yearly approximately 6,200 MWh avoiding around 2,800 tons of CO-eq per year.
2 https://www.media.stellantis.com/em-en/fiat/
press/stellantis-hosts-president-rebelo-de-
Furthermore, an ongoing project to install photovoltaic panels in the Vigo plant should eventually enable the
sousa-at-mangualde-plant-to-celebrate-60th-
self-generation of 17% of the plant’s electricity needs. The capacity of the project is expected to reach 19 MWp in 2023. anniversary-and-present-sustainable-future-
projects-fiat
By 2030, the plant plans to rely on green hydrogen instead of natural gas for some of its industrial processes.
In addition deep geothermal projects are under investigation in Rüsselsheim (Germany), Mulhouse and Caen (France).
These projects represent a further step towards achieving our ambitious Dare Forward 2030 plan.
2.6.3.3 Main achievements on energy use reduction GRI 302-4
Stellantis total energy consumption during the year amounted to 15,495 GWh versus 16,058 GWh in 2021.
Overall, energy consumption decreased by 3.5% with a production level that increased by about 1.4%.
This amounts to 2.7 MWh per vehicle produced versus 2.8 MWh per vehicle produced in 2021.
The breakdown of energy consumption is as follows:
Energy GRAPH (by source)
0.39%
HEAVY
FUELS 0.003%
50.80%
NG + LPG
52.14%
0.90%
COKE
0.90%
0.13% BIOMASS
(WOOD) 0.11%
ELECTRICITY 30.37%
(NOT RENEWABLE 33.12%
SOURCES)
ELECTRICITY 10.96%
(RENEWABLE
7.28%
SOURCES)
6.45% 2022
STEAM +
COOLING 6.45% 2021
This graph shows the sources of energy consumed in Stellantis facilities. This representation allows comparison with data For Details of nergy consumption
from other manufacturers in the sector without casting operations . refer to 2.6.4.2
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.6.3.4 Main initiatives on energy use reduction GRI 302-4
In light of the environmental challenges related to GHG emissions, despite the fact that industrial GHG emissions
Stellantis focused on energy
represent a relatively small portion of the vehicle’s carbon footprint throughout its life cycle, the Manufacturing Division
efficiency projects and initiatives
continued its effort on its own strategy towards reduced energy consumption and a carbon free environment within a as an integrated part of the CO
2
given time period. decarbonization strategy
Stellantis focused on energy efficiency projects and initiatives as an integrated part of the CO decarbonization strategy. €28 M
2
In 2022 Stellantis approved energy efficiency projects for over €28 million in line with the Company’s ambitious Dare
Forward 2030 plan.
As part of the Company merger, we used the opportunity to learn from former PSA and FCA companies by sharing best
practices on a global level. Significant energy and emission reduction projects are shared in the next section.
2.6.3.4.1 Energy efficiency in buildings
Lighting
Lighting retrofits were implemented at numerous plants around the globe and included innovative lighting designs
which utilized the latest LED lighting and control technology for enhanced operations. Collectively, these projects were
an investment of €3 million with a provided benefit of €2.1 million. Some of the largest retrofits that took place included
investments implemented in particular in Atessa (Italy), Windsor Assembly Plant (Canada), Goiana (Brazil) and Tichy
Assembly Plant (Poland). The cumulative energy reduction makes it possible to reduce CO-eq emissions around 6,000
2
tons of CO-eq yearly.
2
Temperature management
Stellantis has been heavily focused on controlling the temperature inside buildings. Numerous initiatives have been carried
out in the production plants through the improvement of the control systems, the modernization and the improvement
of the thermal insulation. Cumulative investments, in this important initiative, amounted around to €6.5 million, reaching
€6.1 million in savings and CO-eq reductions of approximately 35,000 tons. 2
Some of the largest initiatives regarding the upgrade of the energy management system to control wide heating,
ventilation and air-condition (HVAC) took place in Windsor Assembly Plant and Etobicoke Casting Plant (Canada), Atessa
(Italy), Tychy (Poland) and in the following U.S. manufacturing plants Detroit Assembly Complex, Sterling Heights and
Warren.
Insulation
■ Insulation of building supports the reduction of energy consumption as for example for the structural renewal of
building facade in Szentgotthárd (Hungary).
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.6.3.4.2 Energy efficiency in production processes
Given that the energy consumed during the manufacturing process represents the majority of Stellantis’ energy
consumption, Stellantis focus specifically on this process for the reduction of energy costs and for the achievement of
objectives Dare Forward 2030.
Compressed Air
Through the following investments made which overall amount to €1.2 million we reached economic savings of €2.1
million and around 4,000 tons of CO-eq.
2
■ In Pratola Serra (Italy) the compressor room was renewed with the installation of a new centrifugal compressor and a
new dryer.
■ In Mulhouse (France) with the installation of a dedicated energy management system to optimize compressed air
production in the compressor station.
■ In Poissy (France) with the reduction of the compressed air consumed and the implementation of heat recovery.
■ In Bielsko-Biala (Poland) and Porto Real (Brazil) through a leak reduction program both during production and non
production period.
High Efficiency Motors & Variable frequency drives
Stellantis continues to invest on improving its efficiency in the usage of motors, ventilation and pumping systems by
installing variable speed drives and replacing his electrical motors with high efficient motors in various plants. The
cumulative investments represent more than €2 million reaching saving around €2 million and saved 6,500 tons of CO-eq
2
These kind of investments were implemented in Madrid (Spain), Verrone, Pratola Serra, Cassino and Pomigliano (Italy),
Cordoba and Palomar (Argentina), Mangualde (Portugal) and Windsor Assembly Plant (Canada). Process Optimization
CO reduction of
2
Process Optimization
> 70,000
In the field of process optimization, Stellantis has planned in 2022 investments around €16 million related to 70 projects tons
around the world. More than half of the investments will be implemented in the painting process which represents the
higher energy consumption
These investments will result in cumulative economic savings of €15.6 million and a CO reduction of over 70,000 tons.
2
■ An upgrade of the painting process to 4 wet concept has been planned in Saltillo Van assembly plant (Mexico).
■ The first phase for the elimination of steam in the paint shop at Windsor assembly plant (Canada).
■ Investments were made in Hordain and Poissy (France) to optimize the air flows in the paint shop.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
■ Around 600 process improvement projects were completed in South America that reduced more than 49,000 MWh of
Electricity, 24,000 MWh of natural gas and around 8,800 tons of CO. Most of the energy savings from these projects
2
were a result of plant process optimization and improved shutdown efforts
■ The Sterling Heights Assembly Plant in Michigan (U.S.) was awarded first place in the American Society of Heating,
Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) 2022 Technology awards for their “Chiller Plant Optimization
Project.”. The ASHRAE Technology Awards recognize: “outstanding achievements by members who have successfully
applied innovative building design in the areas of occupant comfort, indoor air quality and energy conservation.” The
main goals of optimizing energy consumption were the keys to the success of the project reaching the first place in the
category “Industrial Facilities or Processes – Existing.”
2.6.3.4.3 Company policy or behavioral change:
Real estate footprint
In 2022, the Real Estate Division continued to work on our footprint optimization for all Stellantis activities:
The reduction of 1,845,752 sqm
■ Evolution of use principles, geographical grouping of activities, maximizing use intensity, compaction (reduction of provided CO 2-eq saving
1,845,752 m2). Collectively, these actions provided an estimate reduction of 53,527 tons of CO 2-eq. Real Estate committees 53,527
tons
integrate the environmental issues of projects into decision-making processes including improvement of energy
efficiency in the major renovation projects of our dealership, financial support for energy retrofits of buildings and the
implementation of renewable energy solution
Retail activities also conducts optimization of energy consumption and CO emissions.
2
Carbon and energy impacts are integrated into all the phases of transformation and development of the network. The
mutualization on single site multi brand activities or the intensification of the services activities on site, allows to reduce
our footprint and to valorize our building by the renovation of our energy systems and the improvement of their control.
Example: In 2022, the works for the Creation of the mobility factory on our historic site Nanterre (France) have started.
This unique concept integrates a dealership, sales to companies’ activities, a megastore for used vehicles and a center for
light commercial vehicles.
The concept of four sites in one, allows the reduction of the surface by 59% m2. The works for this new project will need
refurbishment, demolition of around 18,200 m2 and construction of 3,443 m2 and liberation of 18,300 m2.
The environmental requirement has been defined upstream of the project: decarbonized energy sources and energy
performance better than regulatory thresholds (-30% versus requirements of the French thermal regulation 2012).
For all French dealerships and warehouses, which represent 40% of the scope, a process of energy supervision has been
implemented in 2021 to support site managers and to share best practices. This new process allows to reduce by 10% of
total energy consumption versus 2021.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
Key figures to illustrate the optimization of energy consumption and CO emissions in France: Green Campus development
2
for Stellantis Historical
■ LED solution on 20 sites: an investment of €500 thousand and an annual saving forecast of 404 MWH electricity.
Headquarters
■ Renovation heating equipment with low carbon energy instead of gas on six sites: an investment of €353 thousand and
an annual saving forecast of 354 tons of CO-eq.
2
For the other countries in Europe, a strong animation is deployed to implement actions in order to reduce the energy
consumption and the carbon intensity, based on the two following pillars: Energy Sobriety and Efficiency – Use of low
carbon sources.
In Poissy (France) and Rüsselsheim (Germany), Stellantis plans to develop green campus for the national headquarters
that will serve as role models for Stellantis with low-carbon concept and extensive “greening” by 2025.
■ Poissy headquarter in France is expected to group together employees working in nearby sites in a 60,000 m2 campus.
With this project, Stellantis expects to reduce its real estate footprint with a modern, vegetated site, using eco-design
construction technologies to reduce CO emissions.
2
■ Rüsselsheim headquarter in Germany is expected to be transformed to minimize its carbon impact with a consistent
low-energy concept and extensive use of solar panels on roofs. The headquarter is to be integrated into an historical
building, allowing reduced use of resources compared to the construction of a completely new building. Stellantis
integrates the great industrial tradition of the Company into its future site concept. The concept also integrates state-
of-the-art equipment and allows easy accessibility.
Feasibility studies are ongoing to possibly extend this Green Campus development to others Stellantis historical main
footprint.
The initiatives implemented by Stellantis in 2022 resulted in an emission reduction in scope 1 and scope 2 for more than
123,000 tons of CO-eq equals (versus 49,924 in 2021) to 21.4 kg of CO-eq/vehicle produced (versus 8.8 kg in 2021).
2 2
The actions to control energy consumption led to savings of approximately €28 million. These figures are included in the
vehicle production costs and affect the Stellantis’ overall economic performance.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
AVERAGE PLANT ENERGY SPENDING AND (ELECTRICITY AND GAS) CONSUMPTION
Chilled water
Lighthing
Electricity Paint (50%)
Compressors (10%) Pumps
Booth
Ventilation
Building (31%)
Gas
Body (10%)
Ovens
Boiler (25%)
Assembly (6%)
Press (3%)
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.6.4 DETAILED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS TCFD.Ma GRI 3-3
2.6.4.1 Greenhouse gas emissions GRI 302-3 GRI 305-1 GRI 305-2
Direct GHG Direct GHG Indirect GHG Total GHG Note: Direct emissions are calculated based
emissions in emissions from emissions in emissions on the direct energy consumption by applying
Unit: tons of CO-eq CO-eq (scope 1)* biomass (CO-eq)* CO-eq (scope 2) (scope 1 + scope 2) Total as % emission factors acknowledged by the GHG
2 2 2 2
Protocol recommendations (Intergovernmental
2022 641,093 6,653 754,345 1,395,438 41% Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)). Changes in
Enlarged Europe
2021 764,309 5,596 959,555 1,723,864 44% emission levels are thus directly related to
changes in energy consumption and in energy
2022 732,617 1,050,058 1,782,675 52%
sources.
North America
2021 760,484 1,163,882 1,924,366 50%
* Greenhouse gas emissions from the
2022 62,750 42,751 105,501 3% combustion of biomass are not included in
South America direct emissions in accordance with the GHG
2021 65,160 36,902 102,062 3%
Protocol guidelines.
2022 5,241 21,885 27,126 1% Direct GHG emissions expressed in tons of
Middle East & Africa
2021 6,299 20,596 26,895 1%
CO2-eq are calculated by applying coefficients
(global warming potential) of 298 for N2O and
China and India & Asia 2022 2305 6614 8,919 —% 21 for CH4 (source: IPCC reports, 2007 and
Pacific 2021 647 647 —% 1995 respectively). Indirect (scope 2) emissions
expressed in tons CO2-eq. are calculated from
2022 1,444,006 6653 1,875,653 3,319,659 96% electricity and steam purchases in compliance
Total Manufacturing
with emission factors obtained from suppliers
2021 1,596,899 5596 2,180,935 3,777,834 98%
for steam, based on the previous year’s
2022 49,517 40,706 90,223 3% electricity factors, according to GHG Protocol Retail
Market-based guidelines. Location-based
2021 44,129.00 52,524.00 96,652 2%
indirect (scope 2) emissions amounted to
Fugitive Emissions 2022 33,242 33,242 1% 2,550,209 tons of CO2-eq. Fugitive emissions
from F-Gas/ODS of CO2 disclosed result to unintentional
2022 1,526,765 6,653 1,916,359 3,443,124 releases during the use of refrigeration and air
TOTAL conditioning equipment.
2021 1,641,028 5,596 2,233,459 3,874,486**
**Revised from 2021 Annual Report in the
Non-Financial Information section.
The data provided above has taken into account all emissions from all Stellantis industrial facilities including direct
emissions from four cogeneration plants and has been calculated based on GHG Protocol standards.
The Company uses energy produced by cogeneration plants managed by two different approaches. In Melfi, Melfi Plastic,
Cassino and Atessa (Italy), Sochaux, Rennes, Mulhouse and Hordain (France) plants have signed contracts with external
suppliers which provide electricity, steam and hot water used in paint shop process. Three other cogeneration plants
produce electricity and steam from gas. The energy produced is partly used in the plant, but a large part is also sold
to other facilities or to external customers. The amount of gas used is 989,256 MWh LHV to produce 326,445 MWh of
electricity and 441,059 MWh of steam. Electricity generated by cogenerations operated in Zaragoza, Rüsselsheim and
Eisenach has a lower CO-eq content than the national electricity mix from the grid and therefore contributes to CO-eq
2 2
reduction. These scope 1 emissions of the energy sold increase the reported absolute emissions even though they were
not caused by the production. The CO-eq from energy sold to external customers represents 76,222 tons in 2022.
2
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.6.4.2 Breakdown of energy consumption from operations GRI 302-1
Reported energy consumption is expressed in MWh LCV (the most common unit of measurement). In terms of method,
the use of calorific values is recommended by the French decree of October 31, 2012 as part of the application of European
regulation No. 601/2012 on the monitoring and declaration of greenhouse gas emissions under Directive 2003/87/EC of
the European Parliament and Council. The coefficients proposed by these two regulations are derived from the work of
the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change), as are those of the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, used as a
reference by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Following this approach, values expressed in MWh can be converted to
GJ simply by applying a multiplying factor of 3.6 (1 Wh = 3.6 kJ).
Combustible energy Non-combustible energy
Renewable Share of Non-renewable Renewable
electricity Of which decarbonized Total energy
Biomass produced and decarbonized electricity Steam & Total energy consumption
(MWh) Heavy fuels NG + LPG Coke (wood) Electricity consumed electricity (%) Cooling consumption as %
2022 53,949 3,307,277 78,263 20,087 2,995,071 4,525 2,160,240 72% 996,109 7,455,281 48%
Enlarged Europe
2021 561 3,928,611 76,121 16,895 2,985,282 1,759,576 59% 1,034,074 8,041,544 50%
2022 - 3,929,455 61,570 - 2,670,931 - 999,720 37% - 6,661,956 43%
North America
2021 4,063,762 68,883 2,742,931 1,001,723 37% 6,875,576 43%
2022 3,645 328,560 - - 556,005 - 272,819 49% 888,210 6%
South America
2021 343,766 589,166 156,048 26% 932,932 6%
Middle East & 2022 - 28,945 - - 36,315 - 6,576 18% - 65,260 0%
Africa
2021 34,699 34,315 6,217 18% 69,014
China and India & 2022 682 1,328 - - 15,148 - 4,982 33% 1,371 18,529 0%
Asia Pacific
2021 1,509 9,937 5,455 55% 11,446
2022 58,276 7,595,565 139,833 20,087 6,273,470 4,525 3,444,337 55% 997,480 15,089,236 97%
Total
Manufacturing 2021 561 8,372,348 145,004 16,895 6,361,631 2,929,019 46% 1,034,074 15,930,512 99%
2022 2,696 269,737 - - 131,257 1,230 67,503 52% 735 405,655 3%
Retail
2021 253 126,519 11,053 9% 925 127,697 1%
2022 60,972 7,865,302 139,833 20,087 6,404,727 5,755 3,511,840 55% 998,215 15,494,891
TOTAL
2021 561 8,372,601 145,004 16,895 6,488,151 2,940,072 45% 1,034,999* 16,058,210
1,169,776 MWh of electricity consumed were generated from renewable sources.
* Revised from 2021 Annual Report in the Non-Financial Information section
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.7 Carbon footprint of the supply chain: purchasing and logistics
Improving the environmental performance of the supply chain is the third dimension of Stellantis’ decarbonization
strategy. The levers presented in this Chapter aim at supporting Stellantis to meet its objective of reaching carbon net
GRI 305-3
zero with single-digit % of compensation over its entire supply chain in 2038.
Stellantis’ responsible purchasing practices are presented in Chapter 7.1 . This chapter focuses on environmental and For more information refer to 7.1
climate-related aspects.
2.7.1 POLICIES TO EXECUTE THE STRATEGY GRI 3-3
Reducing the Company’s carbon footprint includes actions to reduce the CO emissions related to:
2
■ purchasing, as the extraction of materials and the production of parts represents the second largest source of Stellantis’
CO emissions ; For more information refer to 2.7.3.1
2
■ logistics, which represents a small portion of the carbon footprint of Stellantis . For more information refer to 2.7.3.2
In line with Dare Forward strategy, Stellantis GPSC has defined a target to reduce the carbon footprint of scope 3 upstream activities
by -40% for electric vehicles compared to 2021 by 2030 and to reach carbon net zero with minimal compensation by 2038.
The Company has established a specific CO requirement in its sustainable policy guidelines and has included the CO
2 2
performance as a criterion in its business award policy for the most intensive CO-emitting commodities that represent
2
80% of the CO footprint of the supply chain.
2
Purchasing
Suppliers to Stellantis are deeply involved in the Company’s approach to reducing CO emissions in the supply chain,
2
including the emissions generated for the production of goods and services purchased by Stellantis. Our strategy to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the entire supply chain consists of:
■ selecting suppliers according to environmental criteria such as the ISO 14001 certification, or their capacity to develop
products which incorporate green or recycled materials. As of December 31, 2022, 61% of direct material suppliers have
ISO 14001 certifications
■ collecting a status report from its 250 major suppliers on their current and future CO 2 emissions and implementing a
reduction plan by inviting them annually to participate in the Stellantis CDP Supply Chain program. CDP is an organization
which supports companies with the disclosure of environmental impacts. It aims to make environmental reporting and
risk management a business norm while driving disclosure, insight and action towards a sustainable economy.
Stellantis’ climate change objectives are translated into contractual commitments via specifications and purchasing policies
according to two different criteria: CO emissions reduction and the type of materials used.
2
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
■ Regarding CO 2 emissions linked to the Company’s purchases from suppliers, the Purchasing & Supply Chain division Stellantis is placing particular
challenges its suppliers to establish and work according to an emission reduction plan at least compliant with the emphasis on CO emissions
2
Paris Agreement and to be aligned with Stellantis climate ambitions. In 2022, 51% of the Company’s suppliers set up linked to specific commodities
a reporting process for energy consumption or greenhouse gas emissions. Stellantis is placing particular emphasis on covering around 80% of the
CO 2 emissions linked to specific commodities covering around 80% of the CO 2 emission footprint of the supply chain. CO 2 emission footprint of the
supply chain
■ Stellantis’ No-Deforestation requirement to suppliers is incorporated into the Responsible Purchasing Guidelines
available on the corporate website. Stellantis engages its suppliers globally to set out appropriate monitoring, traceability
and action plans related to efforts to avoid deforestation.
■ Ambitious targets have been set on the percentage of “green/recyclable materials”. These objectives are also a key focus
of the innovation policy that is part of the Company’s supplier certification criteria . Furthermore, suppliers also have a For more information refer to 7.1.5
key role to play in our commitments on reducing hazardous substances . For more information refer to 6.1
Logistics
Stellantis’ logistics operations policy
A specific policy is defined to reduce GHG emissions from logistics and identify areas of improvement and actions needed.
The logistics operations are handled by a variety of external operators and a minority of internal operations, depending on
the origin and destination of the goods. The Company has adopted internal logistics guidelines that provide direction on
how to reduce logistics carbon footprint including methodologies to reduce the impact of freight and vehicle movement.
The Company’s logistics approach focuses on the:
■ optimization of logistics flows regarding network, mode and capacity in addition to the adoption of low-emission
transport vehicles in our own fleets to improve performance and minimize impacts on the environment:
● make efforts to use the least polluting transport methods available, in line with the most stringent environmental
standards
● the Company is exploring and prioritizing alternatives to road transport by increasing the use of rail and river transport
● contractors comply with applicable legislation and regulations.
■ Requirement to suppliers for the use of recyclable or reusable packaging raw materials for new projects vehicles in Europe.
Employee travel policy Stellantis undertakes policies
to optimize employee mobility
Stellantis undertakes policies to optimize employee mobility and reduce CO emissions related to business travel. This
2
and reduce CO emissions
approach encourages a more frugal approach to travel and supports alternatives to traditional individual transport. The 2
related to business travel
Company is committed to limit travel to what is strictly necessary. The Company also focuses on the promotion of remote
working, which reduces commuting.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.7.2 ORGANIZATION AND RESOURCES GRI 3-3
Purchasing
Monitoring CO emissions and GHG emissions of our supply chain is a major aspect of our responsible purchasing practices. For more information about our allocated
2
It requires various internal and external resources and is deeply embedded in our management and tracking tools for CSR resources on responsible purchasing
practices refer to 7.1.6
as well as the decision-making process .
For more information about the
Stellantis has started to use CO performance of suppliers as a key factor in sourcing decisions. We are also utilizing the
2 governance and organizational set-up
CDP Supply Chain module as CDP is the most recognized global carbon accounting initiative and has the biggest network of CSR management inside the Global
and impact. This initiative promotes awareness among suppliers of their impact on the climate, particularly regarding Purchasing and Supply Chain Department
(GPSC) refer to 7.1.4
greenhouse gas emissions and provides detailed information on the suppliers’ level of emissions as well as reduction
targets and commitments . For more information and data
refer to 2.7.3 and to 2.7.4
Furthermore, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and CO emissions are major subjects discussed in the Drive Sustainability
2
Initiative, where Stellantis is a partner, as well as in various other Automotive industry groups in multiple countries . For more information on our participation
in CSR related working groups and
Logistics associations refer to the Purchasing CSR
Resources Matrix in 7.1.6
A specific environmental network in the Logistics Department in each of the 6 regions has to focus on the reduction of
the logistics carbon impact and waste optimization roadmap. This network is composed of 10 logistic correspondents who
are monitored at least quarterly in a Care CO Business Club, has the target to:
2
■ improve the way of measuring logistics CO 2 emissions and waste impacts
■ analyze those impacts
■ set up process evolutions and monitor activities to reduce emissions and waste quality impact.
IMPACT MEASUREMENT OF THE ELECTRIFICATION STRATEGY
The increase of Low Emission Vehicles (LEVs) strategy has two impacts on our logistics. The first one is on the
sourcing of LEVs’ component, which comes with an increase of our upstream distances. The solution to this impact
is the creation of a battery gigafactory close to our plants already announced by Stellantis. The second impact is the
increase of the LEVs weight, which bring a strong constraint on our trucks capacity thus affecting our loading rate on
our downstream flow.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.7.3 MAIN INITIATIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND RESULTS GRI 302-2 GRI 305-4
2.7.3.1 Initiatives to support the electrification strategy
Over the next three years we intend to expand our electrification plan across all products and all Regions. We want to
ensure the availability of our EV products for our customers and that means securing batteries and raw material supply.
Working with suppliers that are best in class on environmental criteria enables Stellantis, as of 2022, to be engaged in
21 joint innovation projects with 19 suppliers to identify and implement technologies that reduce CO emissions of the
2
vehicles as well as in the production of parts. In order to secure the supply of critical materials needed to produce LEVs,
it is necessary to have supporting contracts and relationships with our supply chain to procure the needed raw materials
which will also reinforce the strategy for emissions reduction . For more details related to the binding
agreement refer to 2.5.3.2.2
In addition, Stellantis’ electrification strategy relies on battery repair and reuse, which could contribute to reducing CO emissions
2
from the raw materials and parts supply chain by decreasing the quantity of materials that needs to be purchased . For more information refer to 6.1.7.6
2.7.3.2 Suppliers make a significant contribution to Stellantis’ environmental targets GRI 305-5 GRI 308-2
Most suppliers in the automotive industry face the same environmental issues as Stellantis, which pushes them to reduce
their carbon footprint and water consumption, managing their industrial waste, improving waste recycling and protecting
biodiversity. Stellantis involves them in the efforts to monitor our environmental roadmap.
At this time the manufacturing of BEVs is more CO intensive than the manufacturing of ICEVs, principally due to the
2
production of the battery. Moreover, EV manufacturing uses more aluminum to reduce vehicle weight and therefore optimize
their energy efficiency and their range. As a result, electrification, although it reduces significantly CO emissions from the
2
use of sold products, could lead to an increase in Stellantis’ CO emissions from the purchases of materials and parts. 2
In 2022, CO emissions linked to purchases of materials and components correspond to 8.6% of Stellantis carbon footprint (versus
2
8.3% in 2021) . Efforts carried out by Stellantis to integrate suppliers into our CO 2 emissions reduction ambitions are based on: For more information refer to 2.5.4
■ the integration of climate change in the supplier evaluation: as part of its responsible purchasing strategy Stellantis For more information refer to 7.1.5
assesses the supply base also on environmental criteria annually via the CDP Supply Chain Module as well as part of the
EcoVadis process annually. In 2022, the average environmental score in EcoVadis of Stellantis suppliers was 54.6 outperforming
In 2022, the average
all suppliers assessed by EcoVadis, which had an average score of 44.7. In 2022, 2,974 supplier groups were assessed,
environmental score in EcoVadis
corresponding to more than 87% of the Annual Purchased Value. In case of insufficient performance or nonconformities,
of Stellantis suppliers was 54,6
suppliers have to prove their actions in Corrective Action Plans, that get shared with Stellantis and monitored.
outperforming all suppliers
■ For 2023 the integration of CO 2-eq performance in the supplier selection is planned. assessed by EcoVadis, which had
an average score of 44,7
For new BEV projects we target 70 products, counting for 80% of the CO-eq footprint of the supply chain. Stellantis
2
works on a CO-eq “cradle-to-gate” performance as a criteria for supplier selection.
2
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
■ Stellantis strives to integrate its suppliers in its decarbonization strategy, notably by encouraging them to set greenhouse
gas emissions reduction targets compliant with the Paris Agreement. In 2022, more than 65 percent of our targeted
suppliers had defined such trajectories (based on annual purchase value) versus 55 percent in 2021. The Company
has established a specific CO requirement in its sustainable policy guidelines and has included CO performance as
2 2
a criterion in its business award policy for the most intensive CO emitting commodities that represent 80 percent of
2
the CO footprint of the supply chain. The share is then expected to increase to 95% by 2030 and to contribute to the
2
carbon net zero with single-digit % of compensation objectives in 2038.
In addition, Stellantis’ electrification strategy relies on battery repair and reuse, which could contribute to reducing CO
2
emissions from the raw materials and parts supply chain by decreasing the quantity of materials that needs to be purchased.
■ the collaboration of all major suppliers in the Stellantis CDP Supply Chain program. To promote and closely monitor
awareness among suppliers of their impact on climate change, 250 suppliers have been invited to participate to the
program in 2022 . This program allows for a deeper understanding of several aspects including: the management, the For the details on the survey refer to 2.7.4
targets and the results of individual CO emissions of all major CO emitting suppliers of Stellantis.
2 2
■ the deployment of an engagement campaign to educate suppliers about climate change: Stellantis considers all
suppliers as partners which play a key role to reduce carbon emissions in the supply chain. Therefore, various ways
of dialogue and training opportunities are offered to the supply base for CSR related matters, in particular on CO
2 For the details on the CSR trainings that
emissions and GHG . Stellantis offers for suppliers refer to 7.1.7
■ Maintaining dialogue with key suppliers: The company intensifies the dialogue on CO 2 with its key suppliers and key For more information on the supplier
partners during annual business reviews with the biggest CO contributors in the supply chain . business reviews refer to 7.1.7
2
■ Organizing annual supplier awards event: Our very top Suppliers having a leading CSR Performance are annually recognized For more information on the annual
by our GPSC Top Leadership in the CSR category of our supplier award. The requirements and criteria for this award includes supplier awards event refer to 7.1.7
a strong CO Performance, overall CSR Policy and Achievements . In 2022, the CSR Award winner, Aptiv was selected for its
2
large contribution to the implementation of low emission vehicle technology as well as for its low CO emissions in production.
2
Stellantis’ 2025 target is to monitor 80% (based on APV) of suppliers’ CO emissions through the Stellantis CDP Supply
2
Chain program and dedicated actions from specific focus commodities.
2.7.3.3 Reducing the carbon impact of logistics operations and travel
Stellantis is a global vehicle manufacturer and therefore manages thousands of flows on a daily basis, from sourcing
supplies for its plants to delivering vehicles and spare parts to its clients. Stellantis’ logistics operations are part of the
scope 3 emission category8.
Stellantis is working to define an ambitious trajectory for the carbon footprint of logistics operations that would be
compliant with the Paris Agreement.
8 Since they represent a minor portion of the logistics flows, internal logistics emissions are included in the scope 3 disclosure.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.7.3.3.1 Reducing the carbon impact of logistics operations
LOGISTIC FLOWS
UPSTREAM FLOW DOWNSTREAM FLOW
Planning Forecasts
process and orders
Independent
dealership network
Supplier Stellantis Stellantis Stellantis
Tier 1 foundry sites engine and assembly End customer
transmission sites plant sites
Country vehicle
parks
Integrated
dealership network
SPARE PARTS
PHYSICAL FLOW
Supplier
Tier 1
Upstream
Downstream
Storage
Spare parts
warehouses
Information flow
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
Actions undertaken by Stellantis
This table presents examples of actions undertaken from both companies. The organization to monitor CO logistics challenge
2
was completely different, with a consolidated vision from ex-PSA and a larger autonomy of regions from ex-FCA.
ACTIONS AND LEVERS USED GAINS/RESULTS OBTAINED CONVERGENCE MATURITY
Optimization of packaging and volumes transported with Waste reduction in new vehicle project
▪ Use of sustainable packaging ▪ The reuse of returnable containers in new vehicle projects allows ▪ A new Stellantis rule is defined to evaluate the sustainability of
to reduce waste and packaging are standardized to limit the use the packaging.
of disposable material.
▪ Design to logistics initiative to track the transport impact of ▪ Technical specifications for logistics (TSFLs) have been drawn ▪ The standard to use the “design to logistic”s to track the
parts right from the design phase. up for the large majority of part families and these set out our transport impact of parts right from the design phase has been
logistics requirements for our research and development centers. released and is now implemented for new projects in order to
reduce the transported volume.
Reduced industrial waste (upstream) with
▪ Reusing disposable packaging for overseas flows. ▪ Waste reduction: the reuse of disposable packaging is on going ▪ A global policy about overseas packaging and associated waste
for North America and for Interregional flows between Europe is existing based on the reduction of necessary packaging, the
and South America. reuse of packaging used for shipping and, finally, the recovery if
reuse is not possible.
▪ The best practices are shared in inter regional flows
organization.
▪ Take into account plant waste management in logistics ▪ Studies on plants worse packaging for wastes management are ▪ New requirements have been set up in the specifications with
made to save waste cost and waste tons the objective to handle the quantity and diversity of packaging
wastes.
▪ Improve global monitoring of logistic CO emissions. ▪ Preselection of a CO monitoring system adapted to the diversity ▪ The solution is still under study. In between, Stellantis is
2 2
▪ Exploration of the different solutions available. of our Transport Management System (TMS) regarding upstream working on an improvement in the current data collection to
and downstream CO emissions. cover additional flows and to propose simulations.
2
▪ The goal is to improve awareness with a shared vision between
all transport departments.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
Actions undertaken in collaboration with our contractors
ACTIONS AND LEVERS USED GAINS/RESULTS OBTAINED CONVERGENCE MATURITY
Filling rate of trucks and shipping containers
▪ Implementation of a tool for 3D visualization of the theoretical ▪ For the full truckload transportation, the truck utilization ▪ At Stellantis level, the best practices are already identified and
loading of trucks (Heavy Goods Vehicles) based on daily orders is strongly monitored with the target to optimize it, using shared between both companies and regions.
sent to suppliers. This tool was implemented for shipping dedicated tools. ▪ The Company is investigating the best tools from both
containers. ▪ The fill rate of the trucks arriving at the plants is measured and companies to support our best practices.
▪ Pooling of flows between several suppliers, milk runs, regular action plans are put in place if any anomalies are detected.
optimization of the uplift frequency. ▪ The average cube utilization rate of sea containers being shipped
for intercontinental flows is also monitored and now reaches
almost 89% at Stellantis Global level, thanks to actions on
overseas packaging optimization & container loading efficiency.
Use of multimodal transport
▪ Move to more environmentally friendly modes of transport ▪ Reduction in road traffic and corresponding pollution: a regular ▪ A study was conducted to implement 2 new train corridors and
(already high usage of rail transport and sea transport). sea route service between Saint-Nazaire and Vigo (the so-called some other rail freight portions in Europe from 2024. It showed
“sea motorway”) is in operation. Thanks to this route, each truck that the solution was not validated for its lack of flexibility in an
reduces its mileage by 1,300 km, thus helping to ease congestion evolving uncertain market.
and reduce polluting emissions.
▪ Multimodal flows are used to transport components between
Morocco and the Vigo plant in Spain, through a maritime shuttle
between Tanger and Vigo. This mode of transport enables each
truck to reduce its road journey by 950 km.
▪ Manufactured in Uruguay, the Citroën Jumpy and Peugeot
Expert use components from the Sevel Nord plant, which are
transported by river from the plant to the Port of Antwerp,
instead of by lorry.
Usage of alternative fuels
▪ Utilization of a low emissions fuels by i-Fast, ▪ Low-emissions natural-gas powered trucks in our transport fleet ▪ iFast is an automotive distribution logistics provider previously
operating in Europe avoided approx. 70 tons of CO compared to in FCA perimeter (ex-Fiats Auto Transport since 2006), owner of
2
diesel ones. 182 trucks in September 2022). Its owned fleet uses 9% of low
emission trucks (LNG).
For more information: https://www.i-fast.it/en
Setting up mega trucks lorry traffic flows
▪ Commissioning of a new type of truck, in line with new Spanish ▪ The Madrid and Vigo plants are using mega trucks lorries (also ▪ Mega truck use should increase by 5% in 2022 in Enlarged
legislation known as mega trucks). They are 25m long and can transport Europe (54% in 2021).
more goods with a single trailer than in a standard semi-trailer,
which saves 16% in CO-eq per ton transported
2
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
2.7.4 DETAILED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS TCFD.Ma GRI 302-2 GRI 305-4
2.7.4.1 Supply chain operational KPIs
Supplier status committing to the COP 21 Paris Agreement
2022 45
Number of suppliers
2021 38
2022 69%
APV* of level 1, level 2 suppliers
2021 >55%
Involvement and results of our suppliers in our Carbon Disclosure Project (“CDP”) supplier program
2022 250 83% of APV*
Supplier invited
2021 249 84% of APV*
2022 212 97% of APV invited
Suppliers responded
2021 208 95% of APV invited
2022 85%
Supplier Response Rate
2021 84%
2022 C
Average score
2021 C
* APV = annual purchase value
2.7.4.2 Summary of greenhouse gas emissions per type of shipment (scope: world, excluding JVs) This report covers transport
flows under direct Stellantis
Due to the new logistics service providers transport system on deployment from x-PSA, we needed to extrapolate some data.
responsibility
Exclusions: spare parts distribution not exhaustive yet . Emission factor for North America* just in CO and not in CO-eq.
2 2
Energy consumption is determined for each traffic flow and by mode of transport by using an emission factor corresponding
to this energy (fuel). The scope for downstream distribution includes capillary flows to the dealers.
Intensity factors based on regional emissions factors are used to multiply with weight and distance or fuels when CO
2
emission are not given directly by the logistic providers.
TROPER
ETAMILC
-
EGNAHC
ETAMILC
NO
TCAPMI
ELBIGNAT
A
GNIGNIRB
2
Company CO-eq emissions in tons* CO-eq emissions in %
2 2
Stellantis 2022 1,094,578 80%
Road Former FCA 2021 621,202 82,5%
Former PSA 2021 410,292 82.5%
Stellantis 2022 111,215 8%
Air Former FCA 2021 6,694 0,9%
Former PSA 2021 67,789 13.6%
Stellantis 2022 76,039 6%
Upstream
Rail Former FCA 2021 52,469 7.0%
transport
Former PSA 2021 732 0.1%
Stellantis 2022 84,412 6%
Sea Former FCA 2021 72,199 9.6%
Former PSA 2021 18,559 3.7%
Stellantis 2022 1,366,244 100%
TOTAL Former FCA 2021 752,564 100%
Former PSA 2021 497,372 100%
Stellantis 2022 884,863 81%
Road Former FCA 2021 722,312 77,3%
Former PSA 2021 170,851 75.8%
Stellantis 2022 85,649 8%
Rail Former FCA 2021 116,762 12,5%
Downstream Former PSA 2021 6,812 3.0%
transport
Stellantis 2022 120,321 11%
Sea Former FCA 2021 95,876 10,3%
Former PSA 2021 47,849 21.2%
Stellantis 2022 1,090,834 100%
TOTAL Former FCA 2021 934,950 100%
Former PSA 2021 225,512 100%
Stellantis 2022 2,457,078 100%
Total (Upstream +
Former FCA 2021 1,687,514 100%
downstream transport)
Former PSA 2021 722,885 100%
* The convergence between the different methodologies (former FCA and former PSA) is not ended.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3
DRIVING THE COMPANY TRANSFORMATION
THROUGH THE DEVELOPMENT OF HUMAN CAPITAL
3.1 MANAGEMENT OF COMPANY 3.3 DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND EQUAL
TRANSFORMATIONS AND SOCIAL OPPORTUNITY 183
DIALOGUE 137 3.3.1 Context and Stellantis position 183
3.1.1 Context and Stellantis position 137 3.3.2 Forward-looking vision and targets 184
3.1.2 Forward-looking vision and targets 139 3.3.3 Identification and management of risks
3.1.3 Identification and management of risks and opportunities 184
and opportunities 139 3.3.4 Governance and decision bodies
3.1.4 Governance and decision bodies to lead actions 186
to lead actions 141 3.3.5 Policies to execute the strategy 187
3.1.5 Policies to execute the strategy 142 3.3.6 Organization and resources 188
3.1.6 Organization and resources 144 3.3.7 Main initiatives, achievements and results 189
3.1.7 Main initiatives, achievements and results 148 3.3.8 Detailed key performance indicators 197
3.1.8 Detailed key performance indicators 155
3.4 HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELLBEING
3.2 ATTRACTING AND DEVELOPING IN THE WORKPLACE 202
ALL TALENT 162
3.4.1 Context and Stellantis position 202
3.2.1 Context and Stellantis position 162 3.4.2 Forward-looking vision and targets 203
3.2.2 Forward-looking vision and targets 162 3.4.3 Identification and management of risks
3.2.3 Identification and management of risks and opportunities 203
and opportunities 163 3.4.4 Governance and decision bodies
3.2.4 Governance and decision bodies to lead actions 205
to lead actions 164 3.4.5 Policies to execute the strategy 206
3.2.5 Policies to execute the strategy 164 3.4.6 Organization and resources 207
3.2.6 Organization and resources 167 3.4.7 Main initiatives, achievements and results 210
3.2.7 Main initiatives, achievements and results 168 3.4.8 Detailed key performance indicators 218
3.2.8 Detailed key performance indicators 175
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
STELLANTIS’ CSR MACRO-RISK/PILLAR II. DRIVING THE COMPANY TRANSFORMATION Dare Forward 2030
THROUGH THE DEVELOPMENT OF HUMAN CAPITAL https://www.media.stellantis.com/em-en/
corporate-communications/press/dare-forward-
2030-stellantis-blueprint-for-cutting-edge-
Stellantis’ purpose is to provide clean, safe and affordable mobility to all. With Dare Forward 2030 its bold strategic plan
freedom-of-mobility
for the coming decade, the Company is driving its employees to be ‘second to none’ in value creation for all stakeholders.
In the fight against climate change, we are on track to achieve carbon net zero emissions by 2038. This plan includes
increased electrification, automation, digital transformation, new production and sales processes to design and offer new
products and mobility services meeting customers’ new expectations.
Employees expect transparency that includes their contribution to the future of the Company and how the Company Powered by our diversity, we
supports the surrounding communities where we operate. lead the way the world moves
Our people are the greatest asset of the Company. They are at the heart of Stellantis from Day One, building our new
Company in a increasingly challenging context. By activating the different levers of transformation in a transversal way,
we will make the Company evolve in all its components (skills, behaviors, working environment, social responsibility) We are
evolving from a legacy car maker to a tech mobility company. customer centric
To support our ambition, we defined a Human Capital Development strategy built on four pillars:
1. engage sustainable transformations
2. attract, develop and retain talents We win
together
3. empower diversity with meritocracy
4. leverage employee experiences.
These pillars are our Human Resources foundations to make Stellantis a great company to work for.
Leveraging the employee experiences, we are committed to promoting safety, health and wellbeing in our workplace We are agile
and innovative
and increasing motivation. By applying a flexible approach, including remote working where applicable, rethinking our
workplaces and increasing the adoption of digital and collaborative tools, we aim to preserve employees’ health, improving
their quality of life, as well as reducing the CO emissions generated by daily commuting.
2
Our employees are committed to creating a diverse and inclusive work environment. We firmly believe that employees
We care for
should feel valued and respected. We encourage an environment of inclusivity, celebrating the differences that our
the future
employees bring to work every day.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
We are cultivating performance, continuous learning and permanent development with a high level of creativity and
inspiration based on positive employee experiences. With meritocracy as a key rule, we recognize and reward success.
Based on a constructive and responsible social dialogue, we aim to lead the changes and unleash new expertise in
technologies and services to offer competitive mobility solutions to our customers for a greater future.
Stellantis launched a global employee survey in 2022 to get regular global and local data relative to engagement,
sustainability, wellbeing, diversity and inclusion. The objective is to identify our strengths and drive improvements based
on an employee data centric approach. In 2023 we will conduct two global employee surveys leveraging this tool to
achieve our ambition of making Stellantis a great company to work for.
3.1 Management of Company transformations and social dialogue
3.1.1 CONTEXT AND STELLANTIS POSITION
CSR issue/challenge #4: Management of Company transformations and social dialogue GRI 2-29 GRI 3-3
Through the Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan, our objective is to evolve from a legacy automaker to a sustainable
4 Management of Company
mobility tech Company. Anticipation and development of skills helps the organization to identify the best match transformation and social dialogue
between future needs and current resources. This challenge needs the support and ability of all employees and
For Job Family refer to 3.1.6
employee representatives to change. Stellantis promotes and supports co-constructive, trustful and responsible
social dialogues with employee representatives at each level of the Company. In this way, management and employee
representatives can tackle the major ongoing and upcoming challenges together and provide economic and social
performance for a sustainable future.
To support its objectives, Stellantis will leverage the following actions:
■ continuously improve our organization, with more agility and efficiency to fit business needs;
■ increase care for social climate and make the social dialogue a competitive advantage and the lever to support Company
performance;
■ implement a sustainable transformation due to a common approach to develop and evaluate skills;
■ become a sustainable mobility tech Company through our employee journey and accelerate the transformation.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Social Dialogue
At Stellantis, employee representatives are fully engaged and involved at global and local level. We have dedicated
meetings for sharing a clear vision of the current and upcoming situation and the strategy, to protect the Company and
55
its employees. Our goals are managing the transformations linked to market changes and regulation and together,
Training agreements
paving the way to a sustainable future.
signed
Our co-construction approach with our social partners to anticipate and manage upcoming transformation is a pillar
we have implemented since the beginning of the merger through collective agreements.
Actions in 2022:
20
■ We signed 582 collective agreements (versus 467 in 2021) with 88% of our countries covered (versus 86% in 2021).
Equal Opportunity
■ We have the strong ambition to assign in 2023 as pillar of a Sustainable Transformation framework agreement agreements signed
addressing:
● commitment to fundamental human rights
● commitment to environmental protection 26
● corporate social responsibility
Health & Safety
● co-construction with social partners agreements signed
● developing skills and employability
● being a magnet for talent
● acting for our employee’s wellbeing, health and engagement 216
● diversity and equal opportunities
Working condition
● embracing new ways of working that develop greatness agreements signed
Company’s public position
The automotive sector is going through a significant transformation, ranging from electrification to the integration
of artificial intelligence in autonomous driving. At Stellantis, we believe that social dialogue is key to the transformation
taking place within the Company, supporting this change in a responsible way and engaging our workforce. Social dialogue is key to the
Our employee representatives participate in dedicated meetings to discuss how to protect the Company and its employees transformation
by managing the risks linked to market changes and regulations. By involving and sharing a clear vision of the current and
upcoming situation, the employee representatives are involved in paving the way to a sustainable future.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.1.2 FORWARD-LOOKING VISION AND TARGETS
Commitment scoreboard
CSR ISSUE/
CHALLENGE
VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT RESULTS
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term 2022 2021
(End of Strategic Plan)
Management Implement co-construction % of countries* covered by 2024: 90% 2030: 95% 2040: 100% 88% 86%
4
of company with trustful and transparent collective agreements
transformations and social dialogue with
social dialogue employee representatives
Owner: Chief and stakeholders to
Human Resources & continuously develop and
Transformation Officer prepare the Company for
future challenges
* Countries with over 150 employees
3.1.3 IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES GRI 3-3
Social relations and workforce management are key success factors for involving and engaging employees in an
Environment Social Governance (ESG) process and to realize the Company’s transformation. Against this background,
risks and opportunities were identified.
3.1.3.1 Risks
■ Regulations and industry changes are creating unprecedented requirements for specialized talent, for example related Unprecedented requirements
to cybersecurity and carbon neutrality, including CO 2 for specialized talent
■ High inflation and the insecurity of our staff
■ Operational risks:
● lack of availability of specialized skills, skills assessment and inventory;
● lack of attractiveness and speed at enriching the Company with new competencies needed for the coming challenges;
● decisions to conclude the working relationship with employees that are not aligned with the market-led and
regulatory transformations of the Company, can cause social issues (e.g., social demonstrations, complaints provided
by employee representatives);
● not having the support from social partners, the speed of transformations could be hampered, which is key to
maintaining our market competitiveness. Threat to our reputation in the event of strikes, social movements, dismissals,
legal actions, employee unsatisfaction, etc., as a result not achieving the changing needs of the operational merger
implementation and synergies execution. (e.g., department definition and boundaries).
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.1.3.2 Opportunities
■ Availability of skills and competencies:
● accelerate Stellantis transformation fostering agility, continuous improvement and innovation;
● anticipate changes and equip employees with competences required to succeed;
● achieve sustainable performance aligned with new business needs and trends;
● making best use of existing human capital with strong skills background and recruit for game-changing new fields.
■ Diversity of skills, engine to power the transformations: Right skills at the
right time and place
● contribute to the global distribution of competencies, with the new way of working, New Era of Agility, by having
the right skills at the right time and place to support the business strategies of the Company.
■ Innovative social dialogue:
● co-construction through innovative Collective Bargaining Agreement;
● reassurance on the Company’s ability to manage transformation through social dialogue to facilitate its relationships Co-construction through
innovative Collective
with unions and public authorities.
Bargaining Agreement
■ Implementation of our purposes “winning together” and “caring for the future”, both for the employees and the
Company.
■ The highly competitive and committed team from the merger leverages its combined skills and diverse backgrounds
to guide Stellantis to become a great company to work for.
■ More efficient organization by simplification and redesign to decrease bureaucracy and provide more agility to our
employees.
IMPACT MEASUREMENT OF THE ELECTRIFICATION STRATEGY
Our electrification process relies on a strong inclusive strategy, among others battery repair and reuse.
It will create workforce opportunities for our five gigafactories managed through dedicated Joint Ventures, 21 e-repair
centers, and a battery expertise center in Rüsselsheim, Germany. These new opportunities will be used to ensure the
workforce transition from Internal Combustion Engine vehicles (ICE) to Electric Vehicles (EV). Stellantis is supporting
this workforce transition by training and offering skill enhancement to employees to assist them with their chosen
professional paths internally or externally.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.1.4 GOVERNANCE AND DECISION BODIES TO LEAD ACTIONS GRI 2-30 GRI 3-3 GRI 402-1
The Chief Human Resources and Transformation Officer (CHRTO) is part of the ESG Committee to assist, advise GRI 407-1 GRI 413-1
and act under authority delegated by the Board of Directors with respect to ESG . For Human Resources and Labor For more information refer to 5.1.4.3
Relations at Stellantis, the CHRTO sets and enforces a global Stellantis Social Relation strategy approved by the Top
Executive team . For more information refer to 3.1.5
The Chief Human Resources and Transformation Officer is involved in strategic decisions taking the human factor into
account. This is a necessary condition to establish a quality and proactive social dialogue. By finding the right balance
between corporate and local needs, the global operating model supports further integration of diversity in the Company.
In this way, local needs are considered, while consistent and cohesive actions are taken. Local collective agreements are
HR representatives from about
led by the regions or countries which take global Company policies into account and reflect local particularities.
30 countries participate in a
To get a global social overview, social climate monitoring was implemented in each region or country with the objective poll and share information
to provide insight, create common understanding, allow forecasting on a corporate level and define further action about working rhythms and
plans, as needed. Each month, HR representatives from about 30 countries participate in a poll and share information atmosphere, manufacturing,
about working rhythms and atmosphere, manufacturing, engineering, sales, and Union activities and local policies. engineering, sales, and Union
These criteria enable sharing the state of the social climate from within the workforce to allow for actionable planning activities and local policies
and preparedness.
The Chief Human Resources and Transformation Officer is responsible for the oversight of the Freedom of Association
and the Right to Collective Bargaining. The CHRTO is a member of the Strategy Council and the owner of the strategic
ESG issue “Management of company transformations and social dialogue” . For more information refer to 3.1.7
Co-construction is the approach promoted by the Company to build a responsible relationship based on trust and
Co-construction is the
transparency and aimed at reconciling economic and social performance by implementing the most appropriate approach promoted by the
and pragmatic solutions. With this objective in mind, active dialogue was maintained in 2022 with various employee Company to build a responsible
representation bodies at the national or transnational level. In Europe, through the European Works Councils of PSA, relationship based on trust
Fiat and Opel Vauxhall or in North America UAW (U.S. Union) or Unifor (Canadian Union) whose mandates are respected. and transparency and aimed at
Through the Special Negotiation Body, we will continue to create our employees’ representatives Stellantis community reconciling economic and social
by negotiating the future Stellantis European Works Council by the end of 2023. performance by implementing
the most appropriate and
The approach of co-construction through social dialogue is held as a competitive advantage for the Company in a more
pragmatic solutions
and more demanding environment. The notice period provided to employees and their elected representatives regarding
significant operational changes is regulated either by local legislation or through collective bargaining agreement. The
Company fully complies with both legislation and Collective Bargaining Agreements. Stellantis promotes and implements
exchange with social partners regarding any significant operational changes to find the most appropriate solution in a
responsible manner.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
The Stellantis Social community is set up by leveraging on local and regional employee representatives (e.g. UAW,
European Works Council) and worldwide events on the Dare Forward 2030 plan and HR strategy as foundations of the For more information refer to 3.1.7
future of Stellantis .
Employees Covered by a Collective Bargaining Agreement*
(Stellantis worldwide)
Year Number of employees covered % of employees covered Blue collar workers covered
by collective bargaining agreement
2022 172,214 97%
Blue collars 2021 182,173 97% 97%
2022 60,802 74%
White collars
2021 58,952 65%
2022 233,016 89%
Total
2021 241,125 87%
* Countries with more than 150 employees
In 2022, 582 collective agreements were signed worldwide and 97% of Company blue collar workers are covered by a
collective bargaining agreement at sectoral and/or Company level.
To identify and develop the appropriate and diverse skills needed to be the front runner in tech leadership, we implemented
strong governance and resources dedicated to the know-how evolution strategy . For more information refer to 3.1.6
3.1.5 POLICIES TO EXECUTE THE STRATEGY SASB-310A.2 GRI 2-20 GRI 2-30
The Stellantis social relations strategy is based on six commitments: GRI 3-3 GRI 412-1
■ Stellantis supports the principles of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the right to work
without discrimination for just remuneration.We work towards providing competitive and living wages and have
contracted with the Fair Wage Network, an independent, recognized authority on fair and living wages.
■ Stellantis is committed to complying with all applicable labor laws and regulations and aims to apply best practices in
human resources management.
■ Stellantis bases social dialogue on relationships with independent labor unions and employee representatives and
seeks workplace cooperation.
■ Stellantis’ objective is to negotiate collective bargaining agreements that are pragmatic, inclusive and protective of its
employees.
■ Stellantis fosters social dialogue with the workforce.
■ Stellantis monitors social indicators in its subsidiaries and globally discloses in a transparent manner to its stakeholders.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Stellantis views the respect of human rights as critical to its strategy. The recently formed Human Rights Committee, the Human rights policy
designation of a Chief Human Rights Officer, together with our Human Rights Policy, are examples of the Company’s https://www.stellantis.com/en/
responsibility/human-rights
focus on human rights .
■ The Responsible Purchasing Guidelines and the Stellantis Human Rights Policy seek to align with the human rights
principles embodied in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises, the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of the International Labour Organization
(ILO), the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
■ As a signatory of the UN Global Compact and supporter of the ILO Principles, Stellantis considers environmental and
societal impacts in its decision-making processes in a 360-degree approach, sharing values and requirements with
suppliers, subcontractors, industrial partners and dealer networks.
■ Stellantis reinforces its commitment to global principles with an addition focus on compliance with related local
legislation, such as the French Duty of Vigilance and the UK’s Modern Slavery Act.
■ Incorporated in our recently launched compliance questionnaire, we monitor responses of individuals to determine if
they are aware of any human rights risks or violations.
■ Our various due diligence processes also are designed to alert us with regards to potential violations in by our suppliers
or other business partners on a risk-based basis.
■ Stellantis performs a global audit focused on human rights targeting specific legal entities on a risk-basis in order to
assess the internal control system concerning the human rights process.
Human Rights Audit Coverage (at the end of September 2022)
Number %
Human Rights audit Coverage (Total workforce) 188,556 71%
Headcount with Issue Noted (white collars only) 52,015 28%
Stellantis performs a global audit focused on human rights - targeting specific Legal Entities on a risk-basis in order to
assess the internal control system concerning human rights on issues such as child and forced labor, high risk countries/
areas of corruption or conflict, responsible supply chain sourcing, training and communication internally and to suppliers
based on our yearly assessment. Findings from the 2022 Human Rights Audit identified areas of improvement as training
processes, communication, access to policies and procedures. In total 11 action items for the findings were issued and
supported by our governance-related polices and controls, including our Company’s Code of Conduct, Integrity Helpline
and various communication campaigns on internal websites. In 2023, we will continue to work with outside consultants
to update our 2022 assessment to ensure human rights issues are prioritized, validated and reported regularly to the
Stellantis Ethics and Compliance Committee and to the Board of Directors Audit Committee quarterly.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Security personnel
External service providers often provide the security personnel that protect many of our sites. As with other suppliers,
we require such service providers to follow our Global Responsible Purchasing Guidelines. They are asked to pledge their
commitment to fulfill their responsibility toward respecting human rights, cascading it throughout their entire supply
chain . Internal security personnel need to fulfill the mandatory trainings as all other employees. For more information refer to 7.1.5
3.1.6 ORGANIZATION AND RESOURCES GRI 3-3
The Company aims to have relevant employee representative bodies at all levels (global, regional, local) enabling them
to share implementation of the Company’s strategic plan across all regions and to conduct an efficient dialogue with
employee representatives.
To implement and support the co-construction approach over the whole Company, a four-level organization has been
implemented as follows:
■ corporate labor relations division;
■ regional labor relations leader in each region;
■ country labor relations leader in each main country (U.S., France, Italy, Germany, Brazil);
■ local labor relation experts within the plants or sites.
Stellantis dedicates more than 300 employees fully to manage the social relation and HR specialists who support on Employees dedicated to
the field the right management of the social climate. Moreover, a dedicated training session was held on social relation Social Relation
during the Team2Win training program. This worldwide training program include team leaders, supervisors, shift and 300
plant managers.
Stellantis focuses on ensuring a global approach for skills transformation, leveraging on global job families’ policy and
proper ramp-up plans and on setting up a global network of expertise as a lever to be front runner in tech leadership.
The job family approach provides a worldwide and cross-functional jobs and skills foundation for Stellantis, which is
The job family approach
fully integrated with talent management and learning policies. This foundation of jobs and skills is based on internal and
provides a worldwide and
external data. Through Human Resources analytics facilitation, job roles and required skills are customized and finally
cross-functional jobs and skills
validated by a Job Family and Human Resources stakeholders network.
foundation for Stellantis,
A job family consists of a set of common skills and jobs with the same business purpose. Each job family is split in a specific which is fully integrated with
set of activities called “professions” (100 different professions), requiring the mastery of skills, tools and standardized talent management and
processes. All employees are assigned to a profession and a job family allowing a job and skills driven mapping, cross- learning policies
functional to the organization.
To enable a cross-organization policy to develop and evolve skills for each global job family, governance is set up with key
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
JOB FAMILIES GOVERNANCE
GOVERNANCE MISSION / DELIVERABLES
15
Top Management Sponsor Validate job family vision
Job family Leader Define priorities, validate proposals and give orientation for the job family global job families involving
all white collar employees
HR job families Coordinator Accountable for coordinating and ensuring proper implementation for the
job families processes, supporting Job Family leader and Profession managers:
Job catalog and key jobs, technical skills and learning offer, strategic domains and
skills, typical career path, future needs 100
WORLDWIDE
Profession Manager Main accountabilities: build and approve the job catalog identifying key jobs,
core technical skills development needs and learning roadmap validation, different professions
identify the strategic changes impacting the profession, express future needs of
skills and employment, define the standards and best practices at the global level,
set up their network of expertise.
Expertise Network Accountable with profession managers to define and support future trends,
(Fellow and Senior Fellow) Company performance and technical knowledge and awareness for the technical
domains with the highest level of innovation and technology
Regional Network and Skills Guided by Profession Managers, accountable to help deploying the professions
correspondent orientations and bring up local inputs from Regions
REGIONAL
Regional HR job families Engaged by Global HR job families coordinator, to provide guidance for the local
implementation and to ensure job families processes development thanks to local
HR network involvement
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
JOB FAMILIES MAPPING 6
Software & electrics and electronics Sales & Marketing distinguished fellows
Financial Services
Engineering 54
Communication
Program & Project Management
senior fellows
Quality
15 STELLANTIS
Design
JOB FAMILIES 254
Legal
Manufacturing
Purchasing
fellows
Supply Chain
Finance
ICT, Digital & Data Human Resources & Transformation
As a key asset of the job family approach is the set up of a global employee collective expertise community, gathering 6
distinguished fellows, 54 senior fellows and 254 fellows in specific areas of competencies (domains of expertise), designed
to strengthen the evolution of the highest level skills in the most technical and technological domains to support know-how
development as Innovation and Implementation activities (~300 white collar).
This community, managed together with the Chief Human Resources Transformation Officer and the Chief Technology
Officer, has the aim of:
■ concretely acting to strengthen the best technical know how in the Company ensuring the proper development of the
most technical domains;
■ being the point of reference for supporting our Company performance, becoming the “go-to person” to find the most
efficient and innovative solutions;
■ developing the ability in forecasting changes to secure sustainability for the business;
■ building a world-wide expertise network, powered by Stellantis diversity, with an inclusive environment in which
Develop technical know-how
providing value to the whole innovative ideas and know-how.
aligned with the Dare Forward
This community will play a key role for research and experimentation, external relationships, and partnership to develop 2030 strategy
technical know-how aligned with the Dare Forward 2030 strategy. We strongly believe that this ‘know how’ evolution
strategy is a lever to enable our transformation providing our employees with the proper levers to prepare them for this journey.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
As part of the HR policy, we will also include some critical skills through external hiring by 2024:
■ up to 2,000 in Software;
■ up to 120 in IT/Data;
■ up to 200 in e-commerce, sales and marketing;
■ up to 300 for some specific skills in engineering (e.g., fuel cell, electronic).
SOFTWARE AND ELECTRIFICATION ACADEMY
From the very beginning of the creation of Stellantis, the software and electrification strategy is a highly relevant
topic shared with social partners. We share the challenges and the consequence of the data and energy transition
with the willingness to have a common understanding and the construction of the path to achieve the transition
to a sustainable mobility tech company. Regarding skills management, the anticipation of future needs is a critical
element. The Job Family approach and expertise network is a solution to manage the required operations and ensure a
leadership position within the automotive industry. Furthermore a budget has been allocated to retrain or reskill people
who used to have jobs no longer pursued. This is managed via two specific academies For more information refer to 3.2.7
Work with communities
Throughout several divisions among others Manufacturing, Human Resources and Communications Stellantis is in contact
with its surrounding communities. We act in a sustainable manner and aim for adding value in the communities in which
we are active. This exchange is adapted to the regional and cultural needs and laws, indigenous rights and depending
on the project itself, including employee representatives and/or local trade unions. Often the open dialogue allows
finding the most creative and helpful ideas. Our collaboration ranges from:
■ supporting events by providing corporate infrastructure;
■ rural development;
■ education promotion, promotion of learning projects providing buildings, material or lessons and infrastructure;
■ joint clean-up operations;
■ integrative projects of various population groups.
■ health and hygiene and Environment Protection. More in detail:
● medical support with Stellantis medical staff and equipment including family members or even residents of the
community;
● blood donations campaigns in many sites . For some example refer to 3.1.7
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.1.7 MAIN INITIATIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND RESULTS
GRI 2-7 GRI 2-25 GRI 2-27
With its first global employee survey launched in September 2022, Stellantis gives all employees the opportunity to
express their opinion on topics such as the Company strategy, wellbeing at work, motivation, working conditions, employer
GRI 3-3 GRI 401-1 GRI 401-2
attractiveness, diversity and inclusion. The survey included open-ended comment boxes that allow employees to provide GRI 407-1 GRI 412-1
additional information. This survey is on a voluntary basis. The results are confidential as they are analyzed only in an
aggregated form. Based on an employee centric approach, the objective is to get regular data, semi-annually, at global Employees participated
and local levels to identify the strengths and improvements relative to the employee experience across the Company. in global employee survey
A participation rate of 50% (128,521 in 41 countries) was reached in 2022, with a rate of 36% and 76% for blue collars and 128,521
white collars respectively. The results were compared to an external benchmark, with responses from more than 600
companies all over the world, which allowed the managers to draw better conclusions from the data.
The survey results showed a good level of motivation. For the question "I am motivated to go beyond what is normally
Motivation index
expected to help my Company be successful", 74% of the employees answered positively, demonstrating their strong
commitment within the Company. Employees clearly understand how their own job contributes to achieving the goals 74%
of the Company (84% of positive responses). They like their job, the kind of work they do (83 % of positive answers).
They would recommend the Company's products and services to their friends and relatives (79% of positive answers).
They are aligned with the Company's values (76% of positive answers). They consider that the Company is making the
changes necessary to compete effectively in the market (70% of positive answers).
Opportunity for improvement includes working conditions and workload, with answers varying by employee categories.
There is also room to improve communication with the employees on matters affecting them. More than 5,200
managers received data dashboards for their team to generate discussions within their team and define next steps
in a collaborative mode. The first results of the survey drive actions and projects, to improve wellbeing at work and
motivation, thus decreasing absenteeism, and making Stellantis a great company to work for.
In parallel, the local results of the survey were also shared with employee representatives in all the countries where
Stellantis has made the survey, with the goal to have a common and shared assessment as well as defining action plan
for improving the social climate and the employees’ engagement.
To involve all employees in Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan, the Company is engaging in several actions:
■ regular communications on the strategic orientations and steps of progress to all employees;
■ area dedicated to the strategic plan in the employee portal;
■ regular internal news publications highlighting concrete actions implemented;
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
■ learnings, webinars, masterclasses allowing the acculturation on key topics such as digital, software, D&I, electrification;
■ sharing and exchanges between managers and teams during managerial events such as division town halls & team
meetings;
■ responding to questions raised relative to the strategic plan in the Global Employee Survey;
■ a numeric identity for blue collars will allow them to connect to The Hub, our intranet site, and a professional mailbox
in order to receive directly all personalized communication. Blue collars will be involved in using digital collaborative
tools in their daily jobs like chat, trainings or online documentation. The project will be launch in 2023 with our strategic
partner Microsoft.
At the heart of the global Stellantis Human Resources policy to manage skills, we set up a worldwide and cross For more information refer to 3.2.7
organization governance of 15 Stellantis global job families, with:
■ Implemented 100 professions, with the proper governance, to identify strategic and key skills to support business
performance.
■ Established the policy to map our employees in the global job families with a skills-driven approach .
Stellantis hired
■ Launched the technical skills rating process as a development perspective for our employees and business needs.
33,267
employees
■ Defined the strategy to provide to employees the proper levers to act consistently in their development. One part is the
learning experience. It is based on artificial intelligence and data analytics to provide individual learning recommendations
depending on the employees skills.
Permanent contract
■ Identify the governance, with Chief Human Resources and Transformation Officer and Chief Technical Officer leadership hirings
to engage a global network of expertise to protect the most technological and technical domains of activities. 9,521
Our objective is to build the roadmap of technical strategic skills for current employability and future transformation and
provide our employees with proper development levers. An assessment process on technical skills, alongside the others
phases of the Employee Talent Journey (Aspirations and Values & Behaviors), will contribute to providing concrete inputs
Women hired
for development action plans to solve gaps and to support performance improvement .
10,063
Targeted recruitment processes are deployed within the Company worldwide to support the onboarding and
integration of new talent. Stellantis aims to recruit diverse talent, based on a recruitment policy developing
attractiveness and equal treatment. Worldwide 33,267 employees have been hired with an average cost per FTE
of 867€ and 4,378 apprenticeship and 2,110 internship hirings. This hiring happens across functions (Engineering,
Internships
Industrial, Sales/Marketing, Purchasing, IT, Digital, etc.,) for sites that are experiencing an increase in business.
2,110
It encompasses both junior positions and more senior positions in all employee categories: engineers, technicians,
operators and other competences for the transformation of the Company.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
The Human Resources policy includes the respect of Freedom of Association. It promotes the fundamental labor rights of
their employees namely, and the right to collective bargaining. The Chief Human Resources and Transformation Officer
oversees and protects it.
■ Freedom of Association: free exercise of the right to organize, the efficiency of this organization is represented by 90%
of employees (versus 91,5% in 2021) who are represented by trade unions or employee representatives - We endorse,
among other declarations, the United Nations (UN) Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the International
Labour Organization declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work.
■ 89% of the workforce (versus 87% in 2021) are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, Stellantis worldwide.
Organization of working hours
In every host country, working hours are equal to or less than the legal work week or industry practices. Stellantis has
implemented flexible working hours initiatives, also known as banks of hours, in most countries with industrial or logistics
facilities. As such, working hours are determined on an annual or multi-year basis in these countries. In 2022, overtime
accounted for 6.12% of hours worked in the Company (versus 5.99% in 2021). Overall, in the Company, in 2022, there have
been 39,834 employees working more than 48 hours.
Employee savings plan
Employee savings plans allow employees from several countries to invest in Company shares or other diversified
instruments (shares, bonds, monetary) with a varied yield/ risk ratio depending on the instrument. At the end of December
2022, employee savings (LTI not included) plans represented €688 million, with 28.68 million Stellantis shares (versus
27.16 million in 2021).
Health and Welfare Benefits
The Company offers life insurance in all countries where company insurance can be set up. For health care
benefits, the Company proposes health care insurance to all employees that is competitive within country local
practices. For health care benefits, the Company provides health care insurance to full-time employees where
comprehensive government-provided health insurance is not provided. In 2022, €1,758 million were paid by the
Company as employee benefits. Representing 10% of the total payroll, this amount includes employer payments
for supplementary retirement schemes, healthcare, life insurance, disability, childcare centers and other programs
(gym, wellness, cafeteria, etc.)
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Retirements/Pensions
The commitments recorded in the Company’s accounts under defined-benefits pension programs were €27,077 million
and were covered by dedicated funds of €22,984 million (versus €28,800 million in 2021). These valuations are conducted
annually, in accordance with the IAS 19 standard, by an international actuary firm, based on assumptions audited by the
Company’s Statutory Auditors. The Company has set up defined-contribution pension programs in all countries where
necessary according to market practices and available resources. Some defined-contribution plans are in place in countries
such as France, the United Kingdom, Germany, Spain, Belgium, the Netherlands, Poland, Slovakia, Brazil, Argentina, Turkey,
Canada and the United States, with country-specific modalities.
PROFIT SHARING
In France with non-discretionary and discretionary profit-sharing, and in Brazil with the Programa de Participação nos
Resultados. In other countries, the Company has implemented a Collective Local Performance Incentive (CLPI) plan. The
CLPI, which is deployed based on the Company’s economic performance, is distributed among the countries involved
on a shared basis and is paid out according to terms defined by each country based on collective economic performance
achievement criteria. The CLPI is progressively being implemented in countries with no profit-sharing program. To the
economic performance criterion of operating margin, a criterion on quality results has been added. In addition to this
fixed and variable compensation, there is an individual bonus plan based on company, region or division and individual
performance.
In line with our co-constructive approach, agreements are communicated in different ways, also depending on local
laws. Sometimes they are shared in government databases, intranet, email to all employees, etc. Unions can introduce
themselves to new employees and can contact employees via the e-mail distribution list. In general, regular meetings
are organized with local unions and/or employee representatives where the Human Resources and Transformation (HRT)
team timely address any issues and issues raised by either side. For example, workplace inspections and the preparation
of risk assessments for reasons of occupational safety or complaints procedures due to discrimination (gender, age,
ethnicity, etc.,) are dealt with in cooperation with trade unions and employee representatives. Some of the issues or raised
cases can be solved easily, others may be investigated by the Audit & Compliance team, but eventually specific issues
can also be referred to external mediation.
It is an important component for Stellantis. It aims to anticipate and support the Company’s transitions by incorporating
the human dimension, consequently helping to create a harmonious labor environment. One major strike took place
within Stellantis in 2022 according to the definition of SASB-310a.2. In total 10 strike events (versus 13 in 2021) occurred
corresponding to 10.5 days (versus 13 days in 2021).
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
A globally established program to comply with Human Rights as well as its Diversity and Inclusion commitments and
Wellbeing, Health and Safety policy is the Stellantis Integrity Helpline . For more information refer to 5.1.7
■ The Whistleblowing Policy embodied in our Integrity Helpline allows for any violation of Stellantis Code of Conduct
and compliance rules to be reported and received securely and confidentially, and to be processed and managed
properly. This system is open to employees, employee representatives, suppliers and other stakeholders . Stellantis is For more information refer to 5.1.7
committed to handling claims and complaints that are raised and ensuring due diligence with suppliers in the supply
chain . Reports may be made anonymously unless local law provides otherwise. The confidentiality of the individual(s) For more information refer to 5.1.7
involved in a case is paramount, and no external party is involved unless absolutely necessary to resolve a case and then
only with appropriate confidentiality safeguards.
A globally established program
■ The Company expects that all persons in the workplace will be treated with dignity, their rights respected and their
to comply with Human Rights
privacy maintained. The Integrity Helpline can be used to report any violation of fundamental human rights. Concerns
as well as its Diversity and
are handled in accordance with the Stellantis Integrity Helpline - Whistleblowing Policy, applicable to all Stellantis
Inclusion commitments and
companies and managed pursuant to local regulations.
Wellbeing, Health and Safety
■ Each report is reviewed and when appropriate, triggers an internal investigation. The investigations are conducted with policy is the Stellantis
neutrality and respect in order to check and verify the facts. Behaviors that, after investigation, are concluded to violate Integrity Helpline
our Code of Conduct can be subject to disciplinary measures that are proportional to the seriousness of the offense.
These processes allow vigilance over the Company’s “impacts” on its stakeholders.
■ Any criticality arising from the concerns received are analyzed and specific corrective action plans implemented.
Furthermore, a dedicated training, communication and awareness campaign was delivered to ensure that all employees
are aware of how to behave to prevent the recurrence of such critical issues. Specific to 2022, communication campaigns
and training courses related to the prevention of phishing, fraud, anti-corruption and discrimination were rolled-out.
The Integrity Helpline can be
■ Action plans are monitored and verified to ensure that deadlines agreed upon with the owners are respected used to report any violation of
(postponement requests must be authorized by the Audit and Compliance department). The action plans are validated fundamental human rights
by the hierarchical managers of those responsible for the implementation of actions (overall responsible) and submitted
for validation from the regional and global Ethics and Compliance Committees (ECC). The ECC reviews all the closure of
all reports and their action plans. The implementation of the actions is declared by the owners, who, on the due date,
declare implementation by attaching the necessary information to support closure.
■ The owners of the action may be from various business functions, depending on the finding/action to be implemented.
■ Audit and Compliance conducts follow up audits to verify the actual closure of the most significant actions.
In 2022, 1,862 issues (versus 1,524 in 2021) were reported via the Stellantis Integrity Helpline. All cases are investigated via
the Company's Integrity Helpline - Whistleblowing Policy, with increased awareness of the employees through more
communication. An investigation is carried out systematically with actions taken based on the conclusions.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Number of cases reported via the Integrity Helpline
Protecting our Workforce Conducting Business Interacting Managing our
with External Assets and
Harassment and Internal Discrimination Environment, Health Corruption, Bribery, Data Parties Information
Working Environment and Retaliation & Safety (EHS) Lobbying and Gifts Privacy Other Total
No of reported cases received in 2022 1,007 343 63 29 15 24 67 314 1,862
Total cases closed in 2022 877 299 83 13 12 27 88 323 1,722
No of cases closed in 2022 as
substantiated or not substantiated 280 42 22 5 4 13 36 173 575
with issue
Number of cases archived in 2022 189 49 9 1 0 2 6 30 286
No of cases still open in N
379 194 14 21 5 9 38 100 760
(as of 31/12/2022)
No of closed cases 2022 with actions
326 52 30 6 7 15 37 205 678
taken
Duplicate cases received in 2022 76 17 8 1 0 0 5 7 114
In addition, Stellantis is dedicated to abiding by laws and regulations and to preventing disputes. 10,705 employment
grievances were filed in 2022; 1,641 of them were filed with an official external body (court, employment tribunal,
public mediation body, etc.) and 9,064 were filed according to an internal procedure. 1,494 grievances were settled by
a court or external body during the year.
Labor grievances resolution
Year Total
Grievances filed in court 2022 1,641
during the year 2021 1,501
Grievances filed internally 2022 9,064
during the year 2021 4,279
Grievances resolved by a 2022 1,494
court or external body during
the year 2021 1,822
Of which decision of favor 2022 544
of the company 2021 571
Of which internal 2022 219
remediation with
settlement agreement 2021 116
Of which conviction of the 2022 731
company 2021 1,227
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
The Company did not identify any incident of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples during the
reporting period.
In support of the social dialogue and underlining the connection with the communities Stellantis engaged in two more
activities, namely the Global Employee Volunteerism Program and the Stellantis Student Awards.
■ A historical program the Stellantis Student Awards – formerly the Sergio Marchionne Student Achievement Awards – Total amount distributed for
is rooted in our strategic plans and programs, supporting education and continued learning as critical functions to Stellantis Student Awards
a sustainable future. The Awards are open to all Stellantis Automotive employees, benefiting their children who €715,000
have recently graduated from high school or university with a financial award. The program reflects our corporate
meritocracy, allowing each child the opportunity to succeed based on a defined and transparent list of criteria that
is streamlined across all regions. In 2022, 1,500 applications were reviewed and a total amount of €715,000 has been
distributed to the awarded children.
■ The global employee volunteerism program at Stellantis started as a former FCA program in 2014 designed to Total hours of voluntarism
empower employees to make a difference in their communities by connecting to projects, programs, and partners
4,779
that benefit from their talent. With a designated number of hours of paid time off, employees choose purposeful
projects that they feel passionate about, while communities where the Company operates benefit from the employees’
time and expertise. The volunteerism program fosters a sense of service and gratitude, supporting the Company’s
purpose and values . For more information refer to 7.3.5
We are part of the communities we work in and our employees are also influenced by them. Some examples of projects For more information refer to 3.1.6
created also with our social partners and put in place in our communities:
■ India: Construction of a school block for a government school and will benefit more than 300 rural students studying in
the school from surrounding villages in the vicinity of the Stellantis plant in Thiruvallur.
■ France: Hosting of young people from sensitive sectors on company discovery courses in their third and last year at
Clotilde Vautier College in Rennes. Hiring and training of refugee with AGIRC14 in Caen.
■ Spain: Support for women victims of gender-based violence and at risk of social and professional exclusion by providing
coaching to improve their skills to face job interviews, find employment opportunities and by giving them social and
economic support in partnership with non-profit entities (like the “Red Cross”)
■ Brazil: Estelar program which offers grants, transportation, food, life insurance and support for sports or gym. Young
people have tutoring at Stellantis, in addition to technical and qualification courses carried out by the National Service
Communities where the
for Industrial Training.
Company operates benefit
■ U.S.: Design and paint a mural on the exterior wall of Stellantis NV's new Jeep plant, part of the automaker's $35 million from the employees’ time
community benefits agreement with the city and residents. and expertise
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
GRI 2-7 GRI 2-8 GRI 3-3
3.1.8 DETAILED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS GRI 401-1
3.1.8.1 Stellantis Workforce Headcount
Workforce distribution by reportable segment (headcount) Workforce distribution by geographic area (headcount)
Year Number % Number %
2022 131,075 49% 139,005 53%
Enlarged Europe
2021 142,078 50% 150,807 54%
2022 84,221 32% 85,972 32%
North America
2021 89,412 32% 91,289 32%
2022 26,178 10% 28,966 11%
South America
2021 26,619 9% 29,352 10%
2022 5,042 2% 5,311 2%
Middle East & Africa 2021 5,698 2% 5,983 2%
2022 4,384 2% 4,678 2%
China and India & Asia Pacific
2021 3,893 1% 4,164 1%
2022 1,427 1%
Maserati
2021 1,538 1%
2022 11,605 4%
Other
2021 12,357 4%
2022 263,932 100% 263,932 100%
Total
2021 281,595 100% 281,595 100%
3.1.8.2 2022 Stellantis Workforce Full Time Employee
Workforce distribution by reportable segment (FTE) Workforce distribution by geographic areas (FTE)
Number % Number %
Enlarged Europe 121,345 50 128,916 53
North America 75,452 31 77,193 31
South America 25,702 10 28,458 12
Middle East & Africa 5,041 2 5,310 2
China and India & Asia Pacific 4,383 2 4,677 2
Maserati 1,417 1
Other 11,214 4
Total 244,554 100 244,554 100
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.1.8.3 Part-time employees by gender age group and geographic area
Women Men
Year Under 30 yo 30-50 yo Over 50 yo Total Under 30 yo 30-50 yo Over 50 yo Total Total
2022 276 763 2,307 3,346 819 924 2,014 3,757 7,103
Enlarged Europe
2021 354 2,557 663 956 2,067 1,479 8,076
2022 1,041 264 1,256 2,561 1,760 348 1,870 3,978 6,539
North America
2021 1,284 1,399 209 2,045 1,785 232 6,954
2022 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
South America
2021 ‘- 1 4 4 1 9 10
2022 0 2 9 11 0 1 1 2 13
Middle East & Africa
2021 12 1 1 14
2022 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
China and India & Asia Pacific
2021 1 1 2
2022 1,317 1,029 3,572 5,918 2,579 1,273 3,885 7,737 13,655
Total
2021 1,638 3,970 873 3,005 3,857 1,713 15,056
2022 149 161 682 992 362 295 618 1,275 2,267
Of which half-time employees
2021 219 751 126 615 681 245 2,637
3.1.8.4 Hiring over the year by age, category and gender
Blue collars White collars Top Management
Fixed-term contract Permanent contract Fixed-term contract Permanent contract Fixed-term contract Permanent contract
Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Total
Up to 30 yo 2,744 6,549 1,093 4,101 558 1,010 631 1,248 0 0 0 0 17,934
30-50yo 2,492 3,699 1,064 2,674 192 370 746 2,077 0 0 6 14 13,334
Over 50 yo 320 530 97 492 18 33 99 389 0 0 3 18 1,999
Total 5,556 10,778 2,254 7,267 768 1,413 1,476 3,714 0 0 9 32 33,267
3.1.8.5 Leavers by gender and age
Year Up to 30 years old 31 to 50 years old Over 50 years old Total number of leavers by gender % of leavers by gender
2022 1,235 2,836 1,574 5,645 21%
Women
2021 5,031 4,864 1,955 11,850 26%
2022 3,819 8,832 8,652 21,303 79%
Men
2021 12,787 11,777 9,264 33,828 74%
2022 5,054 11,668 10,226
Total of leavers by age
2021 17,818 16,641 11,219
2022 18.8% 43.3% 37.9% % of leavers
2021 39% 36% 25%
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.1.8.6 Leavers by category - gender and type of leaves
(Stellantis worldwide)
Blue collars White collars Top Management Total
Year Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Total Ratio
2022 542 2,491 1,336 3,667 7 10 1,885 6,168 8,053 30%
Resignations
2021 2,577 8,377 10,954 24%
2022 1,758 4,823 261 728 1 4 2,020 5,555 7,575 28%
Dismissals
2021 4,143 11,793 15,936 37%
Redundancies and transfer 2022 669 4,124 494 2,105 0 1 1,163 6,230 7,393 27%
of undertakings 2021 605 2,817 3,422 7%
2022 319 2,352 255 985 3 13 577 3,350 3,927 15%
Other departures
2021 4,525 10,841 15,366 32%
2022 3,288 13,790 2,346 7,485 11 28 5,645 21,303 26,948 100%
Total
2021 11,850 33,828 45,678 100%
3.1.8.7 Leavers by gender and type of leaves
Number of redundancies
Number Number and transfers of Number of other Total of leavers
Year of resignations of dismissals undertakings departures by gender % of leavers by gender
2022 1,885 2,020 1,163 577 5,645 21%
Women
2021 2,577 4,143 605 4,525 11,850 26%
2022 6,168 5,555 6,230 3,350 21,303 79%
Men
2021 8,377 11,793 2,817 10,841 33,828 74%
2022 8,053 7,575 7,393 3,927
Total of leavers
by type of leaves 2021 10,954 15,936 3,422 15,366
2022 30% 28% 27% 15%
% of leavers
by type of leaves 2021 24% 37% 7% 32%
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.1.8.8 Turnover rate by geographic area gender and age*
Women Men Total
Up to 30 31 to 50 Over 50 Up to 30 31 to 50 Over 50 Up to 30 31 to 50 Over 50 Total of turnovers
Year years old years old years old years old years old years old years old years old years old by geographic area
Enlarged Europe 2022 17% 5% 4% 15% 4% 5% 1550% 4% 4% 5%
North America 2022 15% 8% 7% 14% 7% 8% 15% 8% 8% 9%
South America 2022 30% 20% 14% 24% 13% 11% 25% 14% 11% 16%
Middle East & Africa 2022 23% 14% 13% 28% 14% 11% 26% 14% 11% 18%
China and India & Asia Pacific 2022 41% 26% 25% 39% 21% 16% 40% 22% 17% 24%
2022 20% 8% 5% 18% 7% 6% 18% 7% 6% 7.7%
Total of turnover
by gender and age 2021 7.4%
* Excluding leavers under mutual separation programs
3.1.8.9 Turnover rate by geographic area gender and category*
Women Men Total
White Blue Top White Blue Top White Blue Top Total of turnover
Year collars collars Management collars collars Management collars collars Management by geographic area
Enlarged Europe 2022 6% 4% na 6% 4% na 6% 4% na 5%
North America 2022 10% 8% na 10% 8% na 10% 8% na 9%
South America 2022 13% 30% na 10% 17% na 11% 18% na 16%
Middle East & Africa 2022 20% 9% na 19% 17% na 20% 16% na 18%
China and India & Asia Pacific 2022 28% 100% na 23% 12% na 25% 13% na 24%
2022 9% 9% na 8% 7% na 8% 7% na 7.7%
Total turnover
by gender and category 2021 7.4%
* Excluding leavers under mutual separation programs
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.1.8.10 Length of service - permanent contract employees
Year Up to 5 years 6 to 10 years 11 to 20 years 21 to 30 years Over 30 years Total
2022 54,703 41,986 52,238 63,362 32,385 244,674
Number of employees
2021 59,380 45,997 54,344 64,408 34,589 258,718
3.1.8.11 Contractors*
Women Men Gender Unknown Total
Enlarged Europe 506 1,233 725 2,464
North America 20 32 1,073 1,125
South America 173 1,586 0 1,759
Middle East & Africa 36 443 0 479
China and India & Asia Pacific 507 1,943 0 2,450
Total 1,242 5,237 1,798 8,277
* Contractors (Intelligent Services)
3.1.8.12 Temporary workers by geographic area and gender
Year Total
2022 7,794
Enlarged Europe
2021 2,350
2022 1,124
North America
2021 0
2022 268
South America
2021 90
2022 10
Middle East & Africa
2021 0
2022 1,035
China and India & Asia Pacific
2021 0
2022 10,231
Total
2021 2,440
3.1.8.13 Apprenticeship / Internship
Women Men Total
Number of apprentices at 31 december 1,396 2,982 4,378
Number of interns 810 1,300 2,110
Total 2,206 4,282 6,488
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.1.8.14 Social Dialogue Bodies by country
Number of work council Number of work council Number of work council
Country Year or employee body Country Year or employee body Country Year or employee body
2022 1 2022 38 2022 6
Algeria Germany Poland
2021 2 2021 15 2021 4
2022 2 2022 4 2022 11
Argentina Hungary Portugal
2021 2 2021 1 2021 3
2022 7 2022 0 2022 0
Austria India Russia
2021 8 2021 2 2021 1
2022 9 2022 103 2022 1
Belgium Italy Serbia
2021 4 2021 65 2021 1
2022 7 2022 1 2022 5
Brazil Japan Slovakia
2021 9 2021 2021 2
2022 11 2022 1 2022 70
Canada Malaysia Spain
2021 14 2021 1 2021 16
2022 2 2022 2 2022 1
Chile Mexico Turkey
2021 2021 7 2021
2022 16 2022 5 2022 47
China Morocco United Kingdom
2021 2021 4 2021 42
2022 35 2022 2 2022 84
France Netherlands United States
2021 46 2021 2 2021 39
2022 471
Total
2021
3.1.8.15 Employees Unionized by category
(North America)
Year Number of employees unionized % of employees unionized
Blue collars 2022 64,657 100%
2021 68,968 99%
White collars 2022 18,771 14.7%
2021 3,002 15%
Top Management 2022 304 —%
2021 na na
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.1.8.16 New Era of Agility by gender
Number of employees Number of employees
eligible to NEA participating to NEA
Women Men Women Men
Enlarged Europe 10,365 27,626 7,545 19,194
North America 3,279 11,458 2,410 7,888
South America 1,792 3,658 1,670 3,331
Middle East & Africa 562 928 562 928
China and India & Asia Pacific 975 2,844 975 2,844
Total 16,973 46,514 13,162 34,185
3.1.8.17 Employee Voluntarism
Year Total
2022 713
Number of people
participated 2021 1,117
2022 4,779
Hours of voluntarism
2021 6,249
3.1.8.18 Full-time own workers working more than 48 hours per week by geographic area and by type of
contract
Year Fixed-term contract Permanent contract Total
Enlarged Europe 2022 0 13,950 13,950
North America 2022 589 7,759 8,348
South America 2022 300 16,908 17,208
Middle East & Africa 2022 57 57
China and India & Asia Pacific 2022 16 255 271
Total 2022 905 38,929 39,834
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.2 Attracting and developing all talent
3.2.1 CONTEXT AND STELLANTIS POSITION
CSR issue/challenge #5: Attracting and developing all talent
Talent management takes center stage in Stellantis Human Resources activity and practice. We strive to attract and
retain diverse talents all over the world with the capabilities required for our success. At Stellantis we aspire to be recognized GRI 3-3
as the “employer of choice” in the labor marketplace. Our intentions are to create actions that retain and attract talent with
critical skills. Our objective is to build an Employer Brand action plan by implementing a process to monitor the attractiveness of
5 Attracting and developing all talent
our Company. To further engage and motivate our team, meritocracy is at the center of our strategy, as we recognize and
reward success. As announced in Dare forward 2030, our objective is to have approximately 4,500 software employees by the
end of 2024, achieved through a combination of hiring, upskilling and reskilling our existing talent. Our capacity to develop internal
strategic skills in software, data and electrification, is key. This is the reason we have launched dedicated learning academies.
Our aspiration is to build an agile learning organization by shifting the learning paradigm from a push to a pull learning
model. This approach will provide more support to existing talent who want to develop their skills and find appropriate
resources to perform in their current role, therefore satisfying their growth ambitions.
Company’s public position
Employees are the asset that will lead the transformational change that it is underway in the auto industry. In order to
remain one of the leading companies in the sector, at Stellantis we strive to provide opportunities for our people to grow
professionally, helping in the retention of skills and the development of talented and engaged teams.
3.2.2 FORWARD-LOOKING VISION AND TARGETS GRI 2-4 GRI 3-3
Commitment scoreboard
CSR ISSUE/
CHALLENGE
VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT RESULTS
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term 2022 2021
(End of Strategic Plan)
Attracting and Recruit and empower talents, by Access rate to training 2024: 95 % 2030: 100% 2040: 100% 85%* 72%
5 developing all talent increasing a ‘learning enterprise (=No. of employees trained/
Owner: Chief culture’ and developing strategic total number of employees)
Human Resources & skills, with the right talents in the key % of technical engineering 2024: 10% 2030: 30% 2040: 50% ~6% 5%
Transformation Officer roles to create a highly committed reskill/upskilling
workforce and seize new businesses.
* 2022 data calculated in FTE, not comparable with 2021 data
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.2.3 IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES GRI 3-3 GRI 401-1
In 2022, 33,267 new employees were hired (versus 34,571 in 2021) in strategic fields including Purchasing, Supply
Chain, Software, Marketing and Sales therefore demonstrating our goal of being an employer of choice. With today's
transformation of the automotive industry, attracting and retaining talent at Stellantis is of high importance. In relation to
talent management activities, we identified the following risks and opportunities:
■ Risks linked with the tight labor market that is persistent in markets around the world: in these markets, specific
skills and the most talented people have more options for employment
● Through global teams and projects, development programs, specific international assignments and the possibility to
work remotely, many employees at Stellantis can and do have an impact beyond their geographical location
■ Risks related to weak employer brand recognition
● We are strengthening communication about our employer brand initiatives and existing brand career pages will be
directed to the new Global Stellantis career page
■ Risk of not having the right skills in the right places at the right time
● Through the Job Family approach, strategic skills management and the learning academies, regular reviews and
actions are taken to ensure the skills of the future are being cultivated
■ Risk of not matching skills needs and learning offers
● Strategic skills are linked to new tech and market challenges. Software, digital, ADAS and electrification are emergent topics
with limited availability of internal and external content. This risk is mitigated by leveraging our subject matter experts (technical
fellows), scouting international digital libraries and application of Artificial Intelligence (AI) to match skills and learning resources
Opportunities
■ A unique opportunity for talent to work with Stellantis, a great company to work for according to the framework
agreement , become exposed to, or work within a wide variety of cultures, because of a workforce composed of 162 For more information refer to 3.1.1
nationalities (versus 170 in 2021).
■ The merger gave us the opportunity to optimize our processes, combining best practices from former companies. This year Talent Management processes,
we deployed our new Talent Management processes, centered around the Employee Talent Journey and Managerial Practices. centered around the
Employee Talent Journey and
■ Through the redefinition of the Internal Mobility Rules, we are increasing job opportunity awareness for our employees,
Managerial Practices
enabling them to more readily take on new challenges with our organization. This will also enable us to better enhance
diversity and inclusion across our teams, which will accelerate change and drive performance.
■ Opportunity to build a great environment for employee self-development within a new learning platform, to develop
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.2.4 GOVERNANCE AND DECISION BODIES TO LEAD ACTIONS GRI 3-3
The entire Top Executive Team (TET) plays a vital role in building, reviewing and approving the top layers of the
organization. The TET members work diligently with each other and their strategic Human Resources Business Partners
on building, refining and improving the structure of their teams. Changes to the structure of their teams and talent
placements are reviewed with the full TET, including the Chief Executive Officer, for discussion and approval in committee
meetings that occur two times per month. For the layer under their direct reports, TET members discuss, review and
share their proposals with the Chief Human Resources Officer for input and approval. These reviews occur semimonthly
or monthly, based on the volume of changes, in a Strategy Council meeting or a dedicated HR committee meeting.
These activities, with direct executive involvement, since 2021 led to the confirmation or creation of over 411 leadership
teams, the appointment of over 3,586 leaders in Stellantis (with 27% of positions held by women, versus 24% in 2021,
within the top three layers of the Company). Succession planning activities are managed to ensure that appropriate talent
is available to fill critical or strategic managerial roles.
The Stellantis Talent identification process aims to search for diverse profiles and experiences, identify and look for
talent within the organization, assign diverse talent to key positions, support new businesses, protect knowledge and
knowhow, promote and develop local skills and objectively reward performance. The identified next career steps, for
employees, are discussed by leaders in the organization and used to create formal succession plans. These plans are a
point of focus for the analysis of the Stellantis talent pipeline as well as the identification and execution of development
actions. Succession plans for critical and strategic roles are based on meritocracy, performance, technical and leadership Succession plans for critical
assessments and take into consideration the aspirations of employees. Succession plans are reviewed specifically with and strategic roles are based
TET members and are monitored by a team of HR professionals dedicated to the support of talent activities. These plans on meritocracy, performance,
also form the foundation of developmental activities for this population of high potential employees with specific actions technical and leadership
identified to increase readiness and prepare talent for future roles. assessments and take into
consideration the aspirations of
Stellantis Learning Organization called Stellantis Learning Hub operates at a global level in order to set the learning strategy,
employees
as well as design and deliver common strategic initiatives. The Stellantis Learning Hub also enables the extension of the global
strategy into our regions, where global and local programs are delivered. Technical Academies offer learning opportunities
through the development of designing and delivering technical skills and related training initiatives within their divisions.
3.2.5 POLICIES TO EXECUTE THE STRATEGY GRI 2-19 GRI 3-3
Talent Management
Based on meritocracy and contributing directly to the corporate strategy, the Stellantis talent management approach
seeks to diversify profiles and experiences and to identify and look for talent within the organization. The focus on
strategic skills allows the organization to identify the best match between future needs and current resources. A network
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
of experts contributing to the Company’s technological roadmap is in place, whose mission is to identify the skills required Our objective is to build the
according to the technical needs within the Company. This approach can be defined as “Talent to value”: we identify the roadmap of technical strategic
roles that drive the performance and put our most talented people in the right roles. skills for current employability
and future transformation
At the heart of the global HR policy to manage skills, we set up a worldwide and cross organization governance of 15
Stellantis global job families. Our objective is to build the roadmap of technical strategic skills for current employability and
future transformation. We kicked off the foundation of a global network of expertise with the Chief Technology Officer
leadership gathering Senior Fellows and Fellows to drive technical innovation. This community will play a key role for
research and experimentation, external relationships, and partnership to develop technical know-how aligned with the
Dare Forward 2030 strategy . For more information refer to 3.1
Stellantis Learning Transformation Policy Training hours distribution
per training area
Stellantis’ ambition is to create a widespread culture of continuous learning that leverages in-house experts and enhances learning
in the flow of work and continuous development. This ambition is made possible by a strategy focused on two main axes:
Development of
1. progressively combine the "push" actions, recommended by the Company, with other "pulls", which leave full autonomy to people.
job-specific know-how
2. segment initiatives, learning methods and measures according to their purposes:
60.6%
● Common ground, giving common identity while enhancing diversity. This includes initiatives related to common
values, leadership behaviors, the rules that each of us must respect for safety and well-being.
● Employability, providing or reinforcing the technical skills necessary to work efficiently in the short and medium term.
Managerial skills
The role of the Academies is fundamental for the design of the training offer in collaboration with professional families.
2.8%
● Create the Future support the strategies by providing the knowledge that will be necessary to support them in the
future. Prepare, for example, for entrepreneurship and new ways of working .
Compensation Policy
Cross-cultural awareness
and language skills Stellantis’ compensation policy is designed to promote and reward those who achieve results based on leadership and
performance. The Company benchmarks its compensation and benefits programs. We aim to offer consistent and fair 6.8%
compensation and benefits that are aligned with its overall business strategy. Stellantis commits to communicate to
employees in every country, the various aspects of compensation, social benefits, health and disability insurance, personal
development and working environment. As evidence of the ability of the employee representatives to reconcile cost Corporate campaigns,
control, competitiveness and rewarding performance, 174 salary agreements were signed (versus 62 in 2021). rules and commitments
The Company’s compensation policy has three main objectives: 8.5%
1. reward performance;
2. provide an equitable, fair, competitive, market-driven compensation package;
For more information refer to 3.2.7
attract and retain key talent.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Our compensation policies and practices are designed to comply with applicable laws with a focus on diversity and The Company’s compensation
inclusion. Compensation practices involving recruitment, promotions, annual salary reviews and incentive awards are policy has three main objectives:
reviewed for consistency across employee groups. Allegations of issues regarding eligibility or compensation actions are
1. reward performance;
reviewed for further analysis, explanation and any eventual actions or resolution.
2. provide an equitable, fair,
A base salary is determined on the scope of job responsibilities, experience, performance and the competitive market.
competitive, market-driven
Collective variable compensation is a component of the comprehensive compensation programs offered by Stellantis.
compensation package;
These collective programs target all categories of employees and aim to reward collective and individual performance
3. attract and retain key talent
while engaging employees in value creation for the Company. As a base benefit Stellantis employees across the globe
receive basic health care coverage through company insurance programs or from their local government health system
where applicable.
Compensation & Benefits Practices – Living Wages
We align with the United Nation’s Declaration of Human Rights principle that everyone has the right to a standard of
living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family. Workers deserve a living wage and fair pay
brings benefits for families, communities and our business. Fair compensation means ensuring the pay for employees is
set at a level that is both fair and livable and provides equal pay for equal work. A ‘Framework’ for fair compensation
covers the overall compensation process. It provides a structured way for a company to outline how the various elements
of their compensation packages deliver fair compensation to their employees.
Our Framework applies globally and has several principles reflective of our commitment:
■ fair and livable compensation;
■ market-based compensation;
■ no discrimination in compensation;
■ pay for performance;
■ good faith negotiation of compensation with recognized employee labor organizations.
Long Term Incentive by gender
Year Women Men Total
Number of employees 2022 342 1,447 1,789
benefited 2021 366 1,554 1,920
% of employees 2022 0.62% 0.69% 0.68%
covered by LTI 2021 0.64% 0.70% 0.69%
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.2.6 ORGANIZATION AND RESOURCES GRI 201-3 GRI 205-2 GRI 3-3
GRI 401-2 GRI 404-1
Global Leadership Development team
The Global Leadership Development team is dedicated to the design, planning, education and governance of talent
management and leadership development activities. The tools include, but are not limited to, assessment centers,
coaching, mentoring and digital assessment tools. The team works closely with a global network of over 50 leadership
development professionals specifically identified to coordinate and support talent activities within each regional
organization and each global function. This global network works together to lead the execution of all talent activities
with the operations facing HR teams around the world.
Stellantis Learning Hub
To support Stellantis' transformation to a sustainable mobility tech company, it is vital that employees learn continuously
throughout their careers. The Stellantis Learning Hub is a new Stellantis organization dedicated to learning through a
network of academies, learning communities and teams; an agile organization that leverages smart systems to:
■ make knowledge available anytime, anywhere, right when it is needed;
■ connect diverse and distributed expertise and intelligence.
Central Hub sets the learning strategy and the learning ecosystem at a global level. It also designs global programs across
divisions, supporting talent development, business priorities and corporate transformation.
Technical Academies collect technical needs and design Professional Families related training. The academies The Company invested
are Engineering, Electrification, Manufacturing, Sales and Marketing, Retail, Corporate, Data & Software, approximately €197 million in
training during 2022, delivering
Purchasing and Supply Chain and ICT & Digital. They provide training programs related to current and future
about 3.17 million hours of
employability.
training to approximately
Learning teams at the region and country level support the implementation of global strategies and initiatives. They also 208,535 employees
manage local challenges, rules and specific needs.
The Company invested approximately €197 million in training during 2022 which is 1.13% of employee wage expenses,
delivering about 3.17 million hours of training to approximately 208,535 employees.
Training figures
Individual training Employees benefited
Hours courses provided Training investment Average hours from at least one training
Year of training to employees per FTE (in €) trained per FTE course during the year
2022 3,175,783 662,540 809 13 208,535
2021 3,497,750 458,913 505 12,5 202,437
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Compensation and Benefits
The overall Company’s compensation policy also includes providing an employee competitive benefits program in each of
the countries, while controlling costs and meeting Stellantis’ social responsibility commitments. As the Company continues
in the integration of the merger, an analysis of benefit programs globally is being conducted to harmonize and benchmark
For pension and saving schemes
competitive market practices in each country . refer to 3.1.7
The Company’s determination to reward based on merit was demonstrated through the expansion of the bonus plans.
In 2022, approximately 61,000 Stellantis employees (versus 60,541 in 2021) received bonuses based on Company and
individual performance in 2021. Additionally, the Company expanded the profit sharing upon 218,630 employees,
with a total distribution of €1.8 billion. Stellantis offers Long-Term Incentive (LTI) for specific top managers and key
talent and 1,789 employees benefited. It is a significant component as it is designed to attract, retain and motivate
expert leaders and talent. Performance goals set for LTI compensation are aligned with the interests of shareholders
and other stakeholders, goals include total shareholder return, synergies and CO emissions reductions.
2
3.2.7 MAIN INITIATIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND RESULTS GRI 201-3 GRI 3-3
From day one, we built the Stellantis family with our talents at its core and the ambition to: GRI 404-2 GRI 404-3
■ develop the right talents and skills for sustainable transformation;
■ create the conditions for greater retention, attractiveness and performance.
This is the reason why in 2022, Stellantis took an important step forward in the evolution of our talent strategy by BOOST:
launching a new program called BOOST: Building On Our Singular Talents. The BOOST program is intended to create a Building On Our Singular Talents
level of clarity and transparency to all employees on expectations and empower them to continue to grow and develop in
their careers. The backbone of this program is the Employee Talent Journey.
Employee Talent Journey:
The Stellantis Employee Talent Journey is how we work together to drive the performance of the organization through
development and growth.
The Employee Talent Journey is based on six main steps during the year.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
MAIN STEPS OF THE EMPLOYEE TALENT JOURNEY
Development Actions & Planning
Employee aspirations
Annual Objectives
Leadership behaviors Career Planning
& Results
Technical Skills
At the beginning of each year, managers and employees, white collar workers, identify objectives and related targets for
the year. In the second step, managers and employees discuss employee’s aspirations and the local leadership behaviors
in line with the Stellantis Leadership model.
Technical skills is another step dedicated to the key competencies of employees and their current and future employability
within the Company. Technical skills libraries are identified by job families, referring to specific areas of employability called
professions. The skill set includes a mix of skills needed to support both current employability and more strategic to enable
our future. Employees can customize their profiles adding new skills to complete their skills profile before starting the self-
assessment on a five-point rating scale. For employees this is the opportunity to think about their current competencies
and the new ones that they can develop to reach their aspirations.
Career planning is also considered in a dedicated phase; this is the opportunity for employees to identify concrete career
steps for the future. Based on the employee's performance, aspirations, leadership behaviors, technical skills and experience,
managers and employees discuss next potential positions for the employee and discuss what it will take to get there.
Development actions are then identified and managers and employees work together to identify the highest
developmental priorities, defining concrete actions and resources to act on those priorities.
Annual Appraisal completed by
Throughout the year employees work to reach the targets with managers supporting and providing feedback where white collar employees
needed. To aid in the growth and development of our employees, we have developed a 360 assessment tool. Centered around
92%
the Stellantis Leadership Values, this online tool enables employees to get anonymous feedback from their managers, peers
and direct reports/downstream customers, allowing them to get a holistic view of how they perform and deliver in their role.
Based on the feedback they receive, they can then use that information to inform their development plan and future growth.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Onboarding Open positions
filled by internal candidates
At Stellantis we welcome our new talents and make newcomers ready to be part of the company. All new talents start
7,359
with an Onboarding training, sharing our values and visions as well as to help them become committed members of
Stellantis, a company in full transformation aimed at meeting the new mobility needs of our customers.
Internal Mobility
27%
Internal mobility is a way to enhance career progression while helping Stellantis meet strategic business needs with existing
employee skill sets. In our transition to a mobility tech company, it is essential to utilize all the expertise that employees
of open positions
bring to the table. Building on our singular talent while finding fresh ways to contribute to the Company’s vision and
filled by internal candidates
success. “Be Mobile” is a program setting new internal mobility rules, providing visibility on internal opportunities; making
our mobility journey more understandable and accessible.
Employer Branding
In 2022 we reviewed our Talent Acquisition policy and tools to ensure that our processes are bias-free and to attract
diverse candidates from all over the world . We are also working on the Stellantis Employee Value Proposition to For more information refer to 3.3.7
define our unique employee proposition which will differentiate us from competitors and allow us to be selected as an
employer of choice by external and internal candidates with skills critical for our success.
New Era of Agility
In 2022 the New Era of Agility project is active in 23 countries, allowing employees in engineering and central support
functions to work remotely up to 70% of their work time . It allows greater usage of time and resources as well as For more information refer to 3.4.6
accelerating digital transformation for better agility and efficiency.
It is also a factor of attractiveness and new flexibility in talent acquisition. The complement of remote and on-site work
with collective and collaborative spaces encourage interaction, cross-fertilization and the development of a sense of
belonging within the Company. As mentioned before, the new challenge of Hybrid work has been supported with a
learning environment designed around the learner to give employees the opportunity to leverage resources needed at
the right time.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Learning activities
Learning activities carried out in 2022 to support the Stellantis learning policy were:
■ new learning organization ; For more information refer to 3.2.6
■ new digital libraries for white collar workers and the leadership team with more than 20,000 learning contents (online
courses and videos);
■ one single Learning Experience Platform was launched, including the provision of a rich offer of digital content;
■ targeting all white collars employees;
■ Artificial Intelligence (AI) engine activated into this platform aimed at matching individual skill development needs with Journey to being a tech
the right content. mobility company requires
new ways of learning
The journey to being a tech mobility company requires new ways of learning that put each person at the center and
consider different needs and goals. In 2022 several initiatives were provided.
Common Ground
Training actions for compliance
Compliance courses generated 200,000 training actions in 2022:
200,000
■ Code of Conduct and Data Privacy training campaigns (launched in 2021) were finalized mid-February 2022;
■ the new training on Anti-phishing, Fraud, Raising Concerns and Privacy, with an average completion rate above 90%
and an average Net Promoter Score (customer satisfaction index) above 60 ;
■ 67 sessions were organized for Managers on Ethical leadership as well as 6 sessions in legal topics (competition law and
Board Members).
Values and Purpose programs: driven by top managers who played the role of “leaders as teachers” involving more than
2,300 employees in highly engaging master classes:
■ Diversity and Inclusion learning path: a strong curriculum of online courses and virtual classes aimed at building shared
roots on Diversity and inclusion on a global basis. Around 70,900 employees successfully completed the program with
an average Net Promoter Score of 57;
■ a new Stellantis onboarding e-learning was designed and deployed to white collars new comers, with a global completion
of above 6,000 employees trained;
■ to accompany the new Wellbeing, Health and Safety strategy of the Company, two e-learnings were created (one on
the policy, one to raise awareness), more than 9,000 employees trained;
■ also two programs of 15 hours about Mindfulness (for France and Italy) were organized: 15O employees trained.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Reskilling / Upskilling
Create the Future
■ New Era of Agility learning path: this is the basis of the new way of working in Stellantis. Since the launch at the end
of 2021, 21,742 employees completed the managerial training which provides the opportunity to share methods and
guidelines with team members . A Net Promoter Score of 60 was reached.
■ Customer Centricity: several initiatives to increase the awareness of Customer stakes: five conferences and
masterclasses, four e-learnings were launched , involving about 12,500 employees with an average Net Promoter
Score of 74.
■ Green Mindset : a Climate School was launched with a rich and dynamic set of resources, courses and initiatives related
to the climate impact and green attitude. Around 13,000 employees participated in 2022.
Employability
■ Digital Transformation path aimed at building the digital culture in Stellantis. Within three years we expect to reach
all white collar workers. As of December 2022, 37,584 employees received the digital literacy self-evaluation and 26,963
reached the foundational level.
■ Electrification and Data & Software Academies initiatives.
Top Competencies
The safeguarding of internal careers is for example accomplished in France with the internal retraining program known
as Top Competencies, through training paths that last over 18-24 months. This program supports employees who are
changing professions or Job Family in cases of transformation or when linked to technological developments. In 2022, 754
employees took part in retraining paths, with €747,000 spent. Around 55% of these employees joined professions with
new and rare skills . For more information refer to 3.1
Stellantis prepares the transformation of the Company into a tech company with the creation of two academies:
Software Academy
A software division was created as a standalone division in 2021 with the mission to develop new platforms and
businesses that will propel future success. In order to staff the new Software Division, a recruitment effort is deployed
in five main hubs, U.S., India, Italy, France and Germany, to provide software critical skills from the global tech labor Upskill and reskill over 1,000
market. The hiring process started July 2021 and allowed the onboarding of 300 newcomers at most levels in 2021 and Stellantis employees per year
in software professions and recruit up to 761 new employees in 2022 in this area. Furthermore, a Data and Software Academy was launched in 2022
reconvert internal existing talents
to upskill and reskill over 1,000 Stellantis employees per year in software professions and reconvert internal existing
talents into skills critical for the Company in the future. The Data and Software Academy ambition is to feed Software
teams with Stellantis employees who would have been identified and upskilled or reskilled because of the academy;
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
to deploy the data driven strategy across all divisions to make sure every team is making the most of data; to
improve our employees’ employability by offering them new careers, certifications and new opportunities within
the Company.
The Data and Software Academy is also working on an innovative format to have content available 24 hours a day, seven
days a week by developing a virtual 3D online academy that is slated to launch in 2023. The idea of the virtual 3D
academy is to propose a place that is accessible, at any time, using innovative technologies with a metaverse approach
integrating a virtual reality experience to complement the experience and provide the feeling of being together with the
teacher and colleagues. The learning offers could be accessible based on this platform including virtual classes, forums to
exchange with peers, talks, online content or workshops. We want this online academy to be the flagship of the Academy
and to embody the tech positioning Stellantis is taking. It is also an opportunity to test a use of a metaverse world to be
able to be more comfortable with this technology and extend it to other fields later.
Electrification Academy
A dedicated Electrification Academy has been created to support Stellantis strategic shift to new electrified business, as A dedicated Electrification
part of Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan. The Academy delivers global e-learning programs around electrification and Academy has been created to
e-Mobility. The purpose is to spread up-to-date awareness among employees and engage them with the stakes of the support Stellantis strategic shift
energy transition, the technologies, Stellantis’ strategy and the full customer ecosystem. to new electrified business,
as part of Dare Forward 2030
In 2022, as part of the global upskilling on electrification, more than 56,700 employees were trained on the global
strategic plan
e-Mobility and electrification fundamentals, through e-learning modules. In addition, 14,500 employees have
been trained on electrification-related topics within several professions, with 94,000 hours delivered. Moreover,
advanced upskill and reskill programs are in place to adapt competencies to electrification across job families, such
as engineering, manufacturing and sales and marketing, by ensuring best in class level of skills and boosting internal
employability.
PRESS RELEASE
AMAZON AND STELLANTIS COLLABORATION
Title Amazon and Stellantis Collaborate to
FOR CUSTOMER-CENTRIC CONNECTED EXPERIENCES
Introduce Customer-Centric Connected
Experiences Across Millions of Vehicles,
Stellantis is accelerating its shift to becoming a sustainable mobility tech company. Stellantis and Amazon are
Helping Accelerate Stellantis’ Software
collaborating to deploy Amazon’s technology and software expertise across Stellantis’ organization, including vehicle
Transformation
development, building connected in-vehicle experiences and training the next generation of automotive software
https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
engineers. In 2022, 926 employees were trained on Amazon cloud related technologies . press-releases/2022/january/amazon-stellantis-
collaborate-on-software-solutions
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT ON E-POWERTRAIN
In the field of Engineering, customized training paths combining e-learning, internal classes and also partnerships
with universities are in place to feed the needs around e-Powertrain, and to facilitate the conversion from Internal
Combustion Engines (ICE) engineering curriculum.
In 2022, 511 employees joined the e-Powertrain division, 75% through internal upskill and reskill programs, and 25%
from external hiring.
Engaging the universities
Stellantis partners with several international universities to get the best knowledge and keep in touch with new talent.
Among them:
■ Polytechnic of Turin (Italy), University of Windsor (Canada) and McMaster University (Canada) with the direct support of
Stellantis to the International Degree in Automotive Engineering but also direct collaboration in research and innovation projects.
■ University of Modena and Reggio Emilia (Italy) with the direct provision of mechanical vehicle design courses.
■ University of Trento (Italy), for the study and development of Cooperative driving assistance (ADAS) and autonomous
driving (AD) enabled by Vehicle-to-everything (V2X) connectivity.
■ McMaster University (Canada), Ohio State University (U.S.) and Oakland University (U.S.) in the field of hybrid and
electric vehicle technologies.
■ Several universities in France in collaboration aimed at providing Stellantis with PhDs working for the company for three years.
■ Polytechnics of Milan and Turin, University La Sapienza in Rome and Federico II in Naples (Italy) in collaboration aimed
at providing Stellantis with PhDs working for the company for three years.
The Stellantis Star*Up Studio Ideas submitted
990
Star*Up, launched globally in 2021, is a program aimed at encouraging and transforming our employee’s ideas and
promoting an intrapreneurship spirit within Stellantis. Employees were invited to submit their ideas and each region
selected the top ideas to enter a three-month incubation phase. Each idea is accompanied by an internal coach and
the Incubees have access to a Platform with an introduction to innovation methods such as Design Thinking and Lean Pitches Incubations
Startup, essential to achieve success of the project. At the end of the incubation, winners of the regional finals enter a 193 59
9-to-12 month experimentation towards first customers and first revenues in the Business Factory.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Identifying Livable Wage Amounts
Our principles to provide Fair and Livable Wages requires us to be aware of what is a credible Living Wage amount for
each country in which we have employees. In some countries, however, there are different Living Wage amounts quoted
by different organizations and often based on different criteria. To assist in determining an appropriate amount to use,
the Company has contracted the Fair Wage Network, an independent, recognized authority on fair and living wages,
to provide a global solution. They have developed a global database composed of Living Wage amounts for over 200
countries and cities. The Living Wage amounts are based on cost of living data, local market surveys, government wage
minimums, along with other organizations’ wage benchmarks. The Fair Wage Network will update their database on at least
an annual basis to reflect any changes to Living Wage levels for each country based on inflation and improved data sources.
Internal compliance monitoring of the Stellantis Fair Compensation Framework
The HR lead in each country will be responsible to monitor the compensation of its employees to comply with the
Company’s Global Compensation’s framework of a Livable Wage, annually. Any adjustments necessary to comply will be
addressed during annual salary reviews or where applicable through negotiations with employee representatives / Trade Unions.
3.2.8 DETAILED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS GRI 2-4 GRI 3-3 GRI 202-1
GRI 405-2 GRI 412-2
3.2.8.1 Annual Appraisal by geographic area, gender and category*
Women Men
Blue White Top Blue White Top
Year collars collars Management Total collars collars Management Total Total
2022 4,976 11,179 148 16,303 28,021 37,763 476 66,260 82,563
Enlarged Europe
2021 8,919 11,647 na 20,566 49,986 40,340 na 90,326 110,892
2022 164 3,689 72 3,925 8,921 14,303 231 23,455 27,380
North America
2021 772 4,471 na 5,243 3,391 18,367 na 21,758 27,001
2022 949 1,820 5 2,774 6,499 5,198 34 11,731 14,505
South America
2021 168 2,485 na 2,653 970 5,953 na 6,923 9,576
2022 — 638 1 639 — 1,203 10 1,213 1,852
Middle East & Africa
2021 24 677 na 701 259 1,257 na 1,516 2,217
2022 — 917 3 920 114 2,448 15 2,577 3,497
China and India & Asia Pacific
2021 33 875 na 908 364 2,832 na 3,196 4,104
2022 6,089 18,243 247 24,561 43,555 60,915 803 105,273 129,797
Total
2021 9,916 20,155 na 30,071 54,970 68,749 na 123,719 153,790
* In 2022 92% of white collars workers completed the annual appraisal process (see chapter 3.2.7 for further information on BOOST program). The overall reduction in our population taking part in this process was due to a
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.2.8.2 Employees trained by geographic area and age (employees trained at least 1 time)*
Total of employees trained by
Year Up to 30 yo 31-50 yo Over 50 yo geographic area
2022 9,335 56,922 40,915 107,172
Enlarged Europe
2021 13,706 61,843 38,537 114,086
2022 12,632 33,821 21,884 68,337
North America
2021 15,509 28,693 17,030 61,232
2022 5,460 17,506 2,394 25,360
South America
2021 3,855 12,692 1,616 18,163
2022 1,429 1,577 114 3,120
Middle East & Africa
2021 1,804 3,080 164 5,048
2022 778 3,477 291 4,546
China and India & Asia Pacific
2021 709 2,941 258 3,908
2022 29,634 113,303 65,598 208,535
Total of employees
trained by age 2021 35,583 109,249 57,605 202,437
3.2.8.3 Employees trained by geographic area by gender and category (employees trained at least 1 time)*
Blue collars White collars Top Management
Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total Total
Enlarged Europe 8,323 44,836 53,159 12,955 40,418 53,373 150 490 640 107,172
North America 11,311 35,698 47,009 4,408 16,616 21,024 74 230 304 68,337
South America 2,637 15,157 17,794 2,036 5,489 7,525 5 36 41 25,360
Middle East & Africa 124 794 918 778 1,413 2,191 1 10 11 3,120
China and India & Asia Pacific — 73 73 1,113 3,326 4,439 6 28 34 4,546
Total 22,395 96,558 118,953 21,290 67,262 88,552 236 794 1,030 208,535
* 2022 data calculated in FTE, not comparable with 2021 data
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.2.8.4 Employees trained by geographic area and training area*
Rules and Commitment
Development Cross-cultural Wellbeing,
of job-specific Managerial awareness and Health & of which code of which of which Environment & Software
know-how skills language skills Safety of conduct** human rights anti-corruption Others Sustainability & Digital Electrification Total
Enlarged Europe 77,344 20,878 14,420 36,341 36,238 42,957 7,699 51,918 4,557 28,135 37,588 358,076
North America 41,219 7,040 2,944 26,306 15,892 39,922 12,718 21,284 14,532 5,235 17,231 204,323
South America 9,487 22,492 3,118 3,217 5,883 8,034 916 7,335 1,821 2,290 4,205 68,798
Middle East & Africa 1,716 569 490 93 1,570 1,744 191 2,068 19 709 1,066 10,235
China and India & Asia Pacific 2,472 2,580 329 285 3,231 3,928 510 3,844 167 923 2,839 21,108
Total of employees trained
132,239 53,559 21,301 66,242 62,814 96,585 22,034 86,449 21,096 37,292 62,929 662,540
by type of training
* Data not comparable to 2021, as “training area” clusters changed in 2022 and data calculated in FTE
** Code of Conduct, Speak-up, Ethical leadership classroom, whistle-blower process, Policies and Procedures
3.2.8.5 2022 Training hours by gender and training area*
Rules and Commitment
Development Cross-cultural Wellbeing,
of job-specific Managerial awareness and Health & of which code of which of which Environment & Software
know-how skills language skills Safety of conduct** human rights anti-corruption Others Sustainability & Digital Electrification Total
Women 362,430 20,621 62,970 56,156 7,118 29,986 2,654 23,518 6,046 29,014 24,340 624,854
Men 1,564,139 70,203 155,266 294,561 21,862 92,474 8,554 82,480 20,241 103,169 137,980 2,550,929
Total 1,926,569 90,824 218,236 350,717 28,980 122,460 11,208 105,998 26,287 132,184 162,320 3,175,783
Training hour distribution % 60.66% 2.86% 6.87% 11.04% 0.91% 3.86% 0.35% 3.34% 0.83% 4.16% 5.11% 100.00%
* Data not comparable to 2021, as “training area” clusters changed in 2022 and data calculated in FTE
** Code of Conduct, Speak-up, Ethical leadership classroom, whistle-blower process, Policies and Procedures
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.2.8.6 Comparison between Company entry-Level Salary* and Legal Minimum Wage by country
Country Year Ratio Country Year Ratio Country Year Ratio
2022 3.67 2022 1.04 2022 1.00
Algeria Germany Portugal
2021 3.63 2021 1.39 2021 1.00
2022 2.70 2022 2.10 2022 4.88
Argentina Greece Russia
2021 2.78 2021 2.26 2021 1.74
2022 1.54 2022 1.06 2022 1.08
Australia Hungary Serbia
2021 1.03 2021 1.34 2021 1.14
2022 1.86 2022 2022 1.36
Austria India** Slovakia
2021 2.07 2021 2021 1.36
2022 1.59 2022 1.25 2022
Belgium Italy South Africa**
2021 1.15 2021 1.05 2021
2022 1.21 2022 2.44 2022 1.38
Brazil Japan South Korea
2021 1.46 2021 1.29 2021 1.28
2022 1.57 2022 1.37 2022 3.11
Canada Malaysia Spain
2021 1.37 2021 1.37 2021 1.12
2022 1.02 2022 2.31 2022 2.14
Chile Malta Turkey
2021 1.04 2021 1.00 2021 1.81
2022 2.20 2022 3.17 2022 2.68
China Mexico Ukraine
2021 3.63 2021 1.14 2021 2.40
2022 2022 2.90 2022 1.22
Denmark** Morocco United Kingdom
2021 2021 1.68 2021 1.06
2022 4.11 2022 1.40 2022 2.92
Egypte Netherlands United states
2021 3.39 2021 1.27 2021 1.21
2022 1.26 2022 1.51
France Poland
2021 1.12 2021 1.47
* Same entry-level salary for men and women
** No legal minimum wage for Stellantis employee category
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.2.8.7 Defined-contributions pensions schemes by geographic area
Annual amount of contribution Number of employees benefited
Enlarged Europe 170,027,864 78,629
North America 677,499,329 67,748
South America 399,333 840
Middle East & Africa 6,122,074 2,592
China and India & Asia Pacific 2,995,329 1,357
Total 857,043,931 151,166
3.2.8.8 Defined benefit pensions / other retirement schemes
Total
Defined benefit obligation 27,077.06
at end of financial period (in M€)
Funds assests (in M€) 22,984.40
Number of employees benefited 112,254
3.2.8.9 Compensation gap
%
Ratio of salary gap between executive
26.21
compensation and median salary
Compensation of all employees and CEO compensation is in the Stellantis Compensation Report
3.2.8.10 Profit sharing by geographic area
Number of beneficials Average amount in € Total
Enlarged Europe 137,459 2,19 301,035,210
North America 45,672 10 456,720,000
South America 27,73 865 23,986,450
Middle East & Africa 4,584 620 2,842,080
China and India & Asia Pacific 3,185 2,667 8,494,395
Total 218,63 3,627 793,078,135
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.2.8.11 Employee savings & stock ownership shareholders plan by Stellantis shares, by Diversified funds and by
long term incentives
Total
Number of Stellantis shares
28,683,751
(at 13.27€, December 2022)
Diversified funds (M€) 307
Employee savings without LTI (M€) 688
3.2.8.12 Employee benefits by geographic areas, type of benefits and gender
Supplementary retirement Company-provided Financial support Others (interest-free loans,
Life insurance
schemes health plans for disability-invalidity retirement plan)
Year Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total
2022 13,080 67,489 80,569 22,213 97,386 119,599 13,665 73,798 87,463 20,371 94,704 115,075 4,006 14,655 18,661
Enlarged Europe
2021 11,719 57,263 68,982 15,423 73,355 88,778 5,938 24,436 30,374 18,907 90,326 109,233 3,885 16,639 20,524
2022 5,867 22,336 28,203 25,017 56,687 81,704 28,417 68,400 96,818 17,577 46,423 64,000 3 25 28
North America
2021 6,807 25,372 32,179 17,917 48,651 66,568 19,441 70,245 89,686 17,984 51,475 69,459 12 284 296
2022 714 3,545 4,259 4,859 23,150 28,009 5,246 21,333 26,579 42 155 197 — — —
South America
2021 9,495 42,221 51,716 36,152 50,345 86,497 6,396 27,434 33,830 564 2,077 2,641 7 157 164
2022 39 68 107 900 3,005 3,905 983 3,199 4,182 818 2,779 3,597 — — —
Middle East & Africa
2021 11,146 44,381 55,527 2,707 10,955 13,662 19,223 1,925 21,148 579 2,715 3,293 44 153 197
2022 50 95 145 879 3,036 3,915 968 3,239 4,207 11 84 95 23 8 31
China and India & Asia Pacific
2021 77 143 220 800 2,517 3,317 878 2,459 3,337 5 20 25 620 1,046 1,666
2022 19,750 93,533 113,283 53,868 183,264 237,132 49,279 169,969 219,249 38,819 144,145 182,964 4,032 14,688 18,720
Total
2021 39,244 169,380 208,624 72,999 185,823 258,822 51,876 126,499 178,375 38,039 146,613 184,651 4,568 18,279 22,847
2022 17% 83% 100% 23% 77% 100% 22% 78% 100% 21% 79% 100% 22% 78% 100%
% of employee benefits
2021 19% 81% 100% 28% 72% 100% 29% 71% 100% 21% 79% 100% 20% 80% 100%
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.2.8.13 Employee benefits by geographic area - type of benefits and gender
(in €)
Supplementary retirement Company-provided Financial support Others (interest-free loans,
Life insurance
schemes health plans for disability-invalidity retirement plan)
Year Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total
2022 24,539,699 149,314,251173,853,950 10,979,252 49,716,513 60,695,764 1,188,881 5,571,907 6,760,789 10,194,107 52,510,078 62,704,185 581,176 3,460,187 4,041,363
Enlarged
Europe
2021 15,469,950 112,626,071 128,096,021 6,963,167 32,667,672 39,630,839 1,992,737 7,399,834 9,392,572 6,405,969 27,390,627 33,796,595 212,362 871,184 1,083,546
2022 16,783,924 53,021,343 69,805,267 501,680,931 533,190,586 1,034,871,517 6,823,712 14,514,497 21,338,209 109,756,135 45,298,169 155,054,304 210,921 4,540,409 4,751,330
North America
2021 24,260,929 91,645,213 115,906,142 467,203,162 400,323,625 867,526,786 123,097 1,243,803 1,366,900 383,991 1,555,138 1,939,129 290,773 7,573,331 7,864,104
2022 1,197,182 6,226,229 7,423,411 2,175,895 8,657,506 10,833,402 254,652 1,031,206 1,285,858 1,730 9,940 11,670 133,569 128,331 261,900
South America
2021 12,387,832 57,261,867 69,649,699 25,897,040 33,928,669 59,825,709 195,257 595,517 790,774 16,750 172,334 189,084 437,408 450,664 888,072
2022 40,026 83,608 123,634 355,582 673,784 1,029,366 93,216 251,862 345,078 154,595 348,678 503,274 — — —
Middle East &
Africa
2021 1,403,039 3,241,527 4,644,566 738,485 2,170,593 2,909,078 19,631 99,363 118,993 4,261 37,968 42,228 12,984 94,477 107,461
2022 165,035 411,628 576,663 688,412 954,064 1,642,477 100,105 135,331 235,436 8,844 26,719 35,563 3,164 1,298 4,462
China and India
& Asia Pacific
2021 298,865 795,233 1,094,098 311,780 992,265 1,304,046 70,066 234,379 304,445 7,075 35,895 42,970 141,595 241,356 382,950
2022 42,725,866 209,057,059 251,782,925 515,880,073 593,192,453 1,109,072,526 8,460,567 21,504,803 29,965,369 120,115,411 98,193,584 218,308,996 928,830 8,130,224 9,059,055
Total
2021 53,820,615 265,569,912 319,390,526 501,113,634 470,082,824 971,196,458 2,400,788 9,572,896 11,973,684 6,818,045 29,191,961 36,010,006 1,095,121 9,231,012 10,326,133
% by type of 2022 17% 83% 100% 47% 53% 100% 28% 72% 100% 55% 45% 100% 10% 90% 100%
benefits and
gender 2021 17% 83% 100% 52% 48% 100% 20% 80% 100% 19% 81% 100% 11% 89% 100%
3.2.8.14 Supplementary Benefits by types of benefits and geographic area
(number of employee)
Others
(Cafeteria, Lunch vouchers, gym,
Childcare services Parental Leave Breast feeding wellness, fitness services, hosing) Total
Enlarged Europe 233 260 8,236 70,05 78,779
North America 209 693 29 82,949 83,880
South America 207 157 21 15,137 15,522
Middle East & Africa — 183 22 257 462
China and India & Asia Pacific 80 196 101 660 1,037
Total 729 1,489 8,409 169,053 179,680
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.2.8.15 Supplementary Benefits by types of benefits and geographic area
(in €)
Breast feeding Others (Cafeteria, Lunch vouchers, gym,
Childcare services Parental Leave (facilities and time) wellness, fitness services, hosing) Total
Enlarged Europe 347,266 936,215 24,049 38,873,526 40,181,056
North America 250,839 951,646 — 80,012,673 81,215,158
South America 149,594 195,913 6,542 17,268,327 17,620,376
Middle East & Africa — 192,554 — 533,331 725,885
China and India & Asia Pacific 39,748 85,520 — 340,326 465,594
Total 787,447 2,361,848 30,591 137,028,182 140,208,068
3.2.8.16 Remuneration changes
(2022 vs 2021)
Total
Blue collars 8%
White collars 5%
3.2.8.17 Number of expatriates employees by gender and geographic area
Year Women Men Total
Enlarged Europe 2022 15 87 102
North America 2022 1 4 5
South America 2022 1 2 3
Middle East & Africa 2022 1 18 19
China and India & Asia Pacific 2022 1 42 43
2022 19 153 172
Total
2021 230
3.2.8.18 Countries with expatriates
Year Total
Number of countries with 2022 27
Expatriates 2021 35
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.3 Diversity, inclusion and equal opportunity
3.3.1 CONTEXT AND STELLANTIS POSITION
GRI 3-3
CSR issue/challenge #6: Diversity and equal opportunity
6 Diversity and equal opportunity
Powered by our diversity, we lead the way the world moves. Diversity is a strength for Stellantis and we encourage a
diverse and inclusive environment, celebrating the differences that our employees bring to work every day. Three guiding
Diversity is a strength for
principles defines our approach to Diversity and Inclusion (D&I):
Stellantis and we encourage
1. Empower diversity through meritocracy: meritocracy is key in Stellantis to drive company performance. a diverse and inclusive
environment, celebrating the
2. Respect for local traditions and context: understanding and respecting our employees and their backgrounds is key
differences that our employees
to driving a diverse and inclusive environment.
bring to work every day
3. Find global common ground considering regional specificities: we respect the specificities of each local context
when deploying global strategy. On a global perspective, the Stellantis D&I strategy focuses on the dimensions related
to gender, citizenship and generation.
In 2022 we worked to align our Human Resources processes with the Diversity and Inclusion vision, strategy and
leadership commitment. This exercise included policies applicable to key elements of the employee journey, such as
Talent Acquisition, Succession Planning, Talent Development and Remuneration. However, we worked to embed diversity
and inclusion in all relevant HR processes. Examples of actions are:
■ publication of the new inclusive statement in all Stellantis job descriptions and global adverts;
■ talent identification guidance created to support meritocracy, avoid bias and encourage diversity of talent in the pipeline;
■ D&I standpoint in the HR systems configuration promoting wider data availability to monitor diverse KPIs;
■ inclusion of D&I in the 2023 framework agreement as a commitment to build a diverse and inclusive workspace ; For more information refer to 3.1.1
■ increased transparency in the availability of internal mobility opportunities.
From a learning perspective, in 2022, a Diversity and Inclusion training path was developed and launched to share the
Stellantis D&I vision and commitment with employees across the globe, to explain unconscious bias and raise awareness
on microaggressions. At the end of 2022, our first Global Survey was put in place, to understand employee perceptions
and feedback on engagement, wellbeing, motivation and inclusion . For more information refer to 3.1.7
In 2022 efforts were made to anticipate the 2025 goal related to the percentage of women in leadership positions
(L1-L2-L3), reaching the result of 27%.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Company’s public position
Powered by our diversity we lead the way the world moves, this is our purpose. Diversity and inclusion are therefore
intrinsic parts of our Company’s commitment on equality of opportunity. We work to offer our employees an inclusive work
environment, where everyone can feel respected and valued. Stellantis publicly calls for the prevention of discrimination
and the promotion of equal opportunities. Our Company’s commitments have been detailed in Company agreements,
such as the Diversity and Inclusion Leadership Commitment, which was signed in 2022. Our commitment is underlined
through our signing of the UN Global Compact as Stellantis on May 31, 2021.
3.3.2 FORWARD-LOOKING VISION AND TARGETS GRI 3-3
Commitment scoreboard
CSR ISSUE/
CHALLENGE
VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT RESULTS
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term 2022 2021
(End of Strategic Plan)
Diversity and equal Reinforce diversity, Workforce gender 2025: >30% 2030: >35% 2040: >40% 27% 24%
6
opportunity equal opportunities and balance: % women in
Owner: Chief inclusion as a strength leadership position
Human Resources for our teams and (L1-L2-L3)
& Transformation business by influencing
Officer the development of new
ideas and solutions that
will shape the future
3.3.3 IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES GRI 3-3
We identified the risks, in case our actions do not align with our commitments and identified the opportunities for our
Company to sustain a diverse and inclusive environment.
■ Inability to attract and retain diverse talent impacting our ability to innovate and adapt to our global customer needs
and expectations.
● By communicating our D&I strategy and commitments, we place D&I at the heart of our Employer Brand, the
Company reputation as an employer and present Stellantis as an employer of choice to future talent.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
■ Potential of noncompliance with local regulations and cost of managing individual employee claims on the grounds
of discrimination or harassment.
● Our Code of Conduct states our commitment to compliance with all applicable local laws, with some commitments
going beyond legislative requirements. In addition, we provide comprehensive employee training on D&I, for example,
Unconscious Bias, Preventing Discrimination and Harassment.
■ Difficulties when trying to build a global multicultural organization
● Through a comprehensive Intercultural Learning and Awareness Program, we ensure that employees are equipped
with the knowledge and skills to work with colleagues in a multicultural working environment.
■ Difficulties when trying to integrate new generations
● Through Mentoring and Reverse Mentoring programs knowledge, experience and insights are shared between
generations within the workplace.
Opportunities
■ As a business, we are more agile with the ability to develop and adapt to social and industry transformations
■ the ability to meet the evolving needs of our customers through diverse and representative teams
■ increased employee motivation and engagement by maintaining a fair and inclusive workplace
■ optimizing efficiency, leading to greater performance and business sustainability, by leveraging all talent and diversity; Optimizing efficiency,
leading to greater performance
■ from an external stakeholder perspective, we can maintain and even improve, the Company's image and reputation due
and business sustainability, by
to our progress and achievements with the help of our commitments and action plans
leveraging all talent and diversity
■ by developing a strong employer brand, which is closely aligned with our Diversity and Inclusion strategy, we have the
ability to attract and retain top talent.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.3.4 GOVERNANCE AND DECISION BODIES TO LEAD ACTIONS GRI 3-3
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION ORGANIZATION
STELLANTIS SHAREHOLDERS
Key Activities
Regulations of Executive Board
Executive board
Charter of diversity committee
Set Diversity and Inclusion Goals
Global Diversity
Track diverse representation metrics
Council
Review Global and Regional Strategies
Regional Diversity Management framework for business /
Council operational units
The Global Diversity Council is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and composed of the Stellantis Top Executive
Team, some of whom also have the responsibility as Chairs of the Regional Diversity Councils for their region. The Council
has the responsibility for setting the Company’s Diversity and Inclusion strategy in alignment with the overall business
strategy and objectives. It provides governance and oversight on the delivery of the key Diversity and Inclusion actions
and the effectiveness of the Diversity and Inclusion function.
The Diversity and Inclusion office is responsible for defining and implementing the Company’s Diversity and Inclusion
strategy on a global level and coordinating the extension of the global strategy into our regions and countries of
operation.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Within our regions, the Chief Operating Officer chairs the Regional Diversity Council. Each Regional Council is
responsible for establishing the Regional Diversity and Inclusion strategy and associated action plans, whilst supporting
the implementation of local Diversity and Inclusion action plans, ensuring that regional and local actions align with the
global strategy.
Moreover, collective bargaining agreements, established in collaboration with our Social Partners, state our commitments
on diversity and inclusion, with a focus on the elimination of discrimination and the promotion of diversity.
3.3.5 POLICIES TO EXECUTE THE STRATEGY GRI 3-3
We seek to promote a diverse and inclusive environment where we respect the different characteristics of our employees, We seek to promote a diverse
including but not restricted to, gender, age, ethnicity, nationality, religion, sexual orientation and disability. Stellantis D&I and inclusive environment
strategy reinforces our commitment to providing equality and fairness to all in our employment, based on merit and our where we respect the
zero-tolerance approach to all forms of unlawful and unfair discrimination (as also committed equal treatment and non- different characteristics of
our employees, including but
discrimination in our Human Rights Policy)
not restricted to, gender, age,
The strategy shares our diversity and inclusion aspirations in relation to our customers, our employees, our future talent,
ethnicity, nationality, religion,
our leadership and the communities where we are located, while setting up the key areas of our approach: sexual orientation and disability
■ commitment: building a diverse and inclusive workspace that aims for stronger employee engagement, leading to
greater business sustainability
■ learning and awareness: ensuring all employees have equal access to training and development opportunities, and a
specific learning and awareness program to raise awareness on key diversity and inclusion topics
■ employee Voice: the importance of employee voice and creating channels for them to be heard
■ employer brand: ensuring we reach a diverse audience with our employment opportunities and ensure that our
selection processes are free of bias. Employees trained
Code of Conduct
Code of Conduct
62,814
The Stellantis Code of Conduct (CoC) sets out the principles and requirements that employees are expected to respect
in relation to diversity and inclusion, when interacting with colleagues, customers, suppliers, visitors and other business
partners (62,814 employees trained).
The Code of Conduct expresses the Company's commitment to maintaining a fair and inclusive workplace, free from The Code of Conduct expresses
favoritism, violence, sexual and non sexual harassment, or any kind of discrimination including based on age, ethnicity, the Company's commitment
gender, sexual orientation or religion. The Company promotes equal employment opportunity and diversity, where to maintaining a fair and
inclusive workplace
everyone is valued for their contributions to the Company.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Collective Bargaining Agreements
Stellantis voluntarily formalized its actions in favor of diversity in its social dialogue. On an international scale, the Collective
Bargaining Agreements on Social Responsibility are committed to exceeding local legal requirements in applying and
promoting the fight against racism, sexism, xenophobia and homophobia and, more generally, against intolerance
of differences and safeguarding respect for privacy. In 2022 a global agreement was prepared and will be signed with
IndustriALL Global Union (a global union organization) in 2023. In this agreement the Company officialized its global
commitment on different areas, including diversity and inclusion, and it will be implemented at a regional level with
concrete actions . For more information refer to 3.1.7
AGREEMENT WITH TRADE UNIONS ON GENDER EQUALITY
In 2022, France's trade unions have unanimously signed a new agreement relating to the development of employment
for women and professional equality between women and men. In France, this approach reinforces the substantive
actions already initiated in previous agreements and aims to enrich the dynamic with new initiatives developed in the
field to make our Company and our sector of activity more attractive to women.
3.3.6 ORGANIZATION AND RESOURCES GRI 3-3
Stellantis recognizes the value of engaging with and involving employees in our diversity and inclusion journey and
has supported the establishment of a wide range of resource groups across the organization. These resource groups
undertake multicultural learning opportunities, mentoring and networking events, community outreach initiatives,
charitable activities and contribute to the development and improvement of HR policies and processes across the
Company. We believe that employees actively participating in Resource Groups, contribute to developing a diverse and
inclusive working environment.
In 2022 two new resource groups were created at a global level within Stellantis:
■ Women of Stellantis: the group focuses on the promotion of gender equality within the workplace . PRESS RELEASE
■ DIVERSE•abilities Network Support, represent and advocate for the global disability community through knowledge Women of Stellantis Launches as First
Stellantis Global Business Resource Group in
sharing, capacity building, fostering resilience whilst eliminating stigma and barriers surrounding disability. Establishing
Observance of International Women’s Day
and ensuring accessibility in all forms.
https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/press-releases/
2022/march/women-of-stellantis-launches-as-
first-stellantis-global-business-resource-group-in-
observance-of-international-women-s-day
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
A global intranet site dedicated to D&I was published for Stellantis employees containing news, initiatives and useful
materials related to diversity and inclusion topics. On this site, employees can also find links to the main resources
published in the Company about D&I training and programs. A glossary was also published on the site and shared with all
regions, in order to provide employees a common guide on D&I terminology within Stellantis.
BUSINESS RESOURCES GROUP
In Stellantis, Business Resource Groups (BRG) are also active in the U.S.: Asians Connected Together (ACT), the
DIVERSE•abilities Network (DaN), The Indigenous Cultural Opportunity Network (ICON), Latins in Connection
(LinC), Middle Eastern Employees Together (MEET), the Prism LGBTQ+ Alliance, the Stellantis African Ancestry
Network Diaspora (STAAND), the Stellantis Veterans Group (SVG), the Women of Stellantis (WoS), Women in
Manufacturing (WiM), and the Working Parents Network (WPN).
In the UK, RUOK? (Are You OK?) is an employee-led group, created to support the mental health and wellbeing
of employees through raising awareness, providing information and resources, and removing the stigma
associated with mental health by providing the space and time, and encouraging conversation around mental
wellbeing. In 2022 a dedicated section to RUOK was created in The Hub (Stellantis intranet), which provides
information on who individuals can turn to for help and support.
3.3.7 MAIN INITIATIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND RESULTS
GRI 2-27 GRI 3-3 GRI 401-3
As set forth in our Code of Conduct, Stellantis is committed to gender equality, and is aligned with the vision of the GRI 405-1 GRI 406-1
United Nations Sustainable Development Goal on Gender Equality. Also, Stellantis intends to sign up to the UN Women’s
Empowerment Principles, which encourages companies to promote gender equality and the empowerment of women in
the workplace, industry and community.
With this commitment, the Company shares its intention to adopt business practices that support gender equality
and empower women within the Stellantis organization, globally and across the automotive industry. These include,
among others, processes to ensure equity and fairness in the determination of compensation levels (blue collars average
wages for women is 0.94% of average wages for men and 0.91% for white collars), annual salary reviews and promotions;
provision of flexible working opportunities to support work-life balance arrangements; and events to foster interest in
technical careers among women.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
In 2022, Stellantis earned 100% on the annual Disability Equality Index (DEI), a comprehensive benchmarking tool that
helps companies build focused and measurable strategies that support disability inclusion and equality in the workplace.
The Company was also recognized by DiversityInc as a Noteworthy Company for Diversity and Inclusion efforts.
In 2022 Stellantis was also listed in the top 100 Refinitiv Global Diversity & Inclusion Index.
Global Development Initiatives & Awareness
In 2022, several Stellantis organizations promoted mentoring programs at global and regional level. All proposed programs
follow a purposefully structured internal engagement strategy that connects individuals into ongoing professional
learning and development relationships. The main purpose of mentoring programs is to be an enabler and a development
accelerator for:
■ diversity & inclusion: pairing and connecting mentors and mentees across gender, generation, nationalities, countries
and cross-functions, creating a more inclusive work environment that promotes exposure and interaction opportunities
for people with diverse backgrounds
■ career development: creating awareness on main challenges, goals and experiences to undertake in order to unleash
full individuals' potential and enable career progression
■ core values dissemination and leadership behaviors development.
Programs were developed for leaders, including masterclasses which provided high impact, interactive sessions, that
introduced our leaders to a variety of topics to further develop their awareness on inclusive leadership and build the
interpersonal skills needed to thrive in a global, hybrid workplace. Eight masterclasses were launched globally and three
focused on Diversity and Inclusion (1,521 managers attended):
1. The Inclusive Leader.
2. Creating Psychological safety.
3. Why inclusion is the skill above all else.
Initiatives to increase the awareness on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) topics are also active in the Company.
Employees can establish deeper connections through an extended opportunity to engage with one another. These
programs provide an opportunity to have small group discussions about our differences (and ultimately our similarities) in
a safe confidential setting, the opportunity to openly discuss DEI concepts with colleagues and a call-to-action to extend
our “circles” to include those different than ourselves.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
During the Diversity Awareness Month in October, various speakers offered a collection of robust testimonies and An Inclusion task force was
sparking fresh ways to embrace inclusivity. During the month, diverse topics were highlighted to raise awareness on set up for the Diversity
gender, disability, allyship, citizenship and generations. An Inclusion task force was set up for the Diversity Awareness Awareness Month
Month. The task force undertook the work of developing, championing and implementing diversity month initiative.
Developing solutions which draw on the perspectives of staff at all levels of the Company. Acting as ambassadors for
good inclusion practice in members’ respective departments.
D&I AWARENESS
Stellantis developed a strong project related to D&I awareness within Manufacturing Plants in South America.
Approximately 200 employees participated in 20 listening groups sessions conducted by National Service for Industrial
Learning (SENAI). Diverse topics were addressed, such as gender, ethnicity, generation, citizenship, disability and
LGBTQ+. Based on these insights, training, mentoring and awareness initiatives have been launched and will continue
through 2023. In total, about 1,620 employees (white collar and blue collar workers) will be involved in these actions.
Citizenship
Diverse programs have been launched during 2022 for leaders to support them in managing international teams. Dedicated programs
With 162 nationalities (versus 170 nationalities in 2021) and the possibility to work remotely, some managers face support the development
the challenge of managing diverse teams. Stellantis employees can access the internal information hub dedicated to of cultural intelligence
Intercultural Awareness and the ‘Country Navigator’ tool, which provides employees with the knowledge, skills and
confidence to effectively communicate and collaborate with global colleagues, enabling a truly borderless workplace.
Dedicated programs support the development of cultural intelligence.
Leading Global Teams, a leadership program focusing on the development of global leaders was created to inspire
global leaders and enhance their inclusive leadership skills. This program that was launched at the end of 2022 with 60
global leaders and will continue in 2023. The program is composed of six main steps, each one with specific objectives:
understanding Stellantis D&I culture, developing inclusive leadership behaviors and dealing with diverse teams, leverage
leading mindset changes using diversity as a positive force, recognizing the value of cognitive diversity, learning inclusive
communication behaviors and be effective advocates for diversity in the Company.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Gender
#IamRemarkable
Stellantis adopts a proactive commitment to promoting gender diversity and professional equality. In view of its Workshop with the objective to empower
traditionally male sector of activity, the Company considers the gender balance of its core businesses and key positions women leadership and expertise in
the workplace and to celebrate their
as a fundamental objective of its responsible and sustainable development and of its employees’ quality of life at work.
accomplishments. During 2022 about 250
20.79 percent of Stellantis employees are women in 2022 (versus 20.51 percent in 2021). In 2022, women represented 27% employees attended the initiative.
(versus 24% in 2021) of leadership positions (L1-L2-L3)* and 30.2% of hiring with all employee categories combined.
Initiatives are managed by the “Women of Stellantis” resource group that focuses on promoting gender equality and “Career Coffee Break”
inclusion within the workplace. They are active in 25 countries, and thus contribute significantly to the Company’s cultural STEM initiative stimulating the presence of
transformation. women in the scientific and technological
sectors. Focused on Women and STEM
In line with the Company strategy to become a sustainable mobility tech company, in 2022 we started to monitor the professions, to address switching on
and growing passion and enthusiasm in
percentage of women in our core STEM functions: Software, ICT, Engineering, Manufacturing Engineering. There are
women students on science, technology,
15.9% women in these functions. engineering, mathematics and
manufacturing careers.
In 2022, several Stellantis organizations promoted mentoring programs at global and regional levels. For example the
“Women in Leadership” global development program involved the Software, ICT, Manufacturing and Engineering
functions. The program focuses on: Impact and Influence, Career Management and Strategic Acumen. In 2022 50 “Women’s Leadership
Experience”
employees were involved.
Career development program with the
Stellantis is committed to supporting women's empowerment through different initiatives: objective to empower, inspire and sustain
women in their career path progression
Additionally, Stellantis saw the launch of the Supporting the Progression of Women workshop. The workshop addresses and prepare emerging diverse talent for
ways in which managers may support both their direct reports and the progression of women more generally. The Global leadership opportunities.
Business Resources Group, Women Of Stellantis has driven initiatives in all regions of Stellantis.
Female Universe
Program delivered in South America
WOMEN OF STELLANTIS
Plants, focusing on women needs
to make their presence at work stay
The “Women of Stellantis” is the first global business resource group within Stellantis with a member base of over more “comfortable” for practical female
5,000 employees worldwide (men and women), a 77% increase in member growth year-over-year. The group acts needs. Dedicated spaces are in place,
where women can find clean uniforms,
as a think tank contributing to business issues and cultural change while encouraging members to be advocates
healthcare and hygienic products.
of tomorrow’s Company, through key management or expertise positions. In 2022, the Women of Stellantis global
team organized global efforts around International Women’s Day and International Day of the Girl, as well as
hosting a virtual leadership series highlighting female executives around the world. Women of Stellantis groups in Diverse Development Programs
each business region also hosted over 100 events to support local initiatives and professional and personal growth
Rocket: talent acceleration program that
opportunities.
aims to foster the career path of diverse
employees (including women).
97 women participated in the program.
* Hierarchical position below CEO excluding assistants
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Race & Ethnicity
Stellantis has developed several programs and policies specifically supporting ethnically underrepresented populations
and 43% of diverse ethnicities were hired in total workforce in the US in 2022. In 2022, the Black Leaders Advancement
Collective (BLAC) leadership development program was launched, involving 15 employees with the objective to prepare
emerging diverse talent for leadership opportunities.
Launched in 2021, the Black Supplier Development Program continued also this year, in collaboration with the National
Business League (NBL), to develop Black suppliers for future contracting and procurement opportunities in the pursuit
of greater racial equity in the marketplace. The Stellantis-NBL National Black Supplier Development Program will support
the development of Black businesses around the country and internationally for future opportunities within the federal
government and public and private sectors.
In line with UN Declaration on the Rights of indigenous Peoples and international legal framework, Stellantis makes
all due efforts to respect, include and promote local communities in its work. In 2022, Stellantis was recognized as a
Top 50 Workplace for Indigenous STEM Professionals in North America by Winds of Change magazine and was also
recognized as one of the Top 50 Best Employers for Latinas in the United States (#10) by LATINA Style magazine (the
Company is the highest rated automaker in 2022). Furthermore, Stellantis has been ranked a five-star company on the
2022 Hispanic Association on Corporate Responsibility (HACR) Corporate Inclusion Index. The annual survey measures
Hispanic inclusion in corporate America and assesses companies to help identify opportunities for growth in their
Hispanic diversity and inclusion practices.
Generations working together
Stellantis seeks to strengthen the place of more experienced employees and considers them an advantage for the
Company’s success. Through mentoring programs, the Company encourages knowledge transfer, builds leaders who
model inclusion through trust, transparency and feedback. This exchange and the coexistence of generations is considered
as an asset for social cohesion and business performance.
To attract the next generation of talent into the automotive industry the Company has programs in place . For more information refer to 3.1.7
On a regional basis, countries such as India, Brazil and China have specific projects focused on attracting candidates
directly from university campuses in order to meet our future skills requirements in areas such as software and digital
Stellantis seeks to strengthen
technologies. In India, the Company works on the National Employability Enhancement Scheme (NEEM) program in
the place of more experienced
collaboration with the Government. NEEM is aimed at recruiting and providing the under-skilled youth the much-needed
employees and considers
exposure and training to acquire the finer skills.
them an advantage for the
Stellantis received the label “Happy Trainees” in the category “international” initiated by “Choose my company”, that Company’s success
rewards companies that have particularly distinguished themselves in welcoming its trainees, apprentices and Volunteer
International Experience (VIE) within its institutions.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Disability
Stellantis policy regarding social and occupational inclusion of people with disabilities is enacted worldwide through
various collective agreements with the goal of keeping workers with disabilities employed, carrying out preventive actions
and promoting their integration into the workplace. Taking such an approach benefits everyone as well as the Company’s
performance and includes:
■ offering employment opportunities for individuals with disabilities
■ supporting the inclusion of employees with a disability by raising awareness among employees throughout the year
and by reinforcing the training of managers and trainers
■ taking action to include and retain employees with disabilities and maintain them in their jobs by supporting them and
providing adjusted work solutions or specially adapted workstations
■ mobilizing all actors by improving awareness of collective agreements and of measures in favor of the workers
concerned (local disability correspondent, social service, medical service, human resources function, management,
employee representatives and employees) and by setting up preventive measures.
The DIVERSE•abilities Network is one of the company’s global Resource Groups that aims to support employees with
disabilities, employees who are caregivers of family members with disabilities, and employees responsible for the care of
elder loved ones by providing resources, training and development programs.
REGIONAL INITIATIVES
In 2022, in France, we engaged a new collaboration with the sheltered sector to develop our partnership and created a
video to raise awareness in their teams and ours. During the European Week for the Employment of Disabled People
in November, Stellantis highlighted its partnerships with Adapted Companies (EA) and Establishments and Services for
Help through Work (ESAT).
In the U.S. Autism Management is available for eligible employees and their dependents. It provides support for families
who have children with Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) including assistance with Applied Behavioral Analysis (ABA)
management, integrated services coordination (e.g., physical therapy, occupational therapy and behavioral health) as
well as intensive case management for outlier cases.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
LGBTQ+
Our LGBTQ+ BRGs are committed to sustain LGBTI+ employees through learning, mentoring and talent development Stellantis is demonstrating the
initiatives. In 2022, Stellantis signed the “LGBTI+ Business and Rights Forum”, a mobilization of companies in Brazil Company's commitment to
committed to making true the maxim of the United Nation’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights for LGBTI+ that states LGBTQ+ employees, customers
that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. and communities with a
variety of events and programs
Stellantis is demonstrating the Company's commitment to LGBTQ+ employees, customers and communities with a variety
throughout Pride Month
of events and programs throughout Pride Month. Detroit (U.S.) is home to one of the largest celebrations as the colors of
the rainbow are full display in June at Motor City Pride, the annual two-day festival and parade that is the largest LGBTQ+
gathering in Michigan. Stellantis and the Jeep brand are the presenting sponsors of the festival and parade. In Canada,
Stellantis facilities across the country are showing their support by raising the Pride flag throughout June, like many U.S.
and Mexico Manufacturing facilities.
The Prism LGBTQ+ Alliance resource group, established 2003, welcomes employees and allies to participate in Pride
Month in June, National Coming Out Day in October, and is a key partner to Stellantis brands. Prism promotes inclusion for
everyone and recorded multiple “Let’s Get Real” panel discussions about various topics including how to support LGBTQ+
children, transgender issues, the proper use of pronouns and the importance of Allies. The group counts more than 200
members and two Executives sponsors.
Parenthood
Stellantis takes parenthood into account as part of its respect for gender equality in the workplace. By supporting a
work environment encouraging employees to return to work after maternity / paternity leave, Stellantis helps employees
who are parents to achieve a better work-life balance for example by providing childcare / education subsidy for
children or by signing work-life balance agreements (to reduce the working day hours or change the work schedule
through different alternatives to ease family care). It also ensures employees are informed about the possible parental
leave options, depending on the legislation, encouraging both mothers and fathers to take advantage of it. In some
countries, the Company offers improved maternity leave conditions compared to the national ones by offering better
economic conditions (for example in the U.S., UK and UAE) or by giving the possibility to extend the period of leave
(e.g., in Argentina and Mexico).
In many sites of the Company, lactation rooms are available to support mothers that are back at work and want to
continue breastfeeding. At the country level, for example in Spain, flexible breastfeeding leave options are also available
(by hour or accumulation in full days).
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Different benefits to support parents and their families are active at a country level (e.g., reimbursement of kindergarten or
babysitting; Scholarship and family care programs, health insurance for family members). Flexible working time is also possible
thanks to New Era of Agility (NEA) project that allows eligible employees to work remotely up to 70% of their work time . For more information refer to 3.4.6
Domestic Partner Benefits are available to both same-sex and opposite-sex partners at country level. We recognize family
trends are changing and domestic partner benefits meet the needs of a diverse and dynamic workforce as well as the
expectations of prospective employees.
DONATIONS OF HOLIDAYS
On top of the public regulation, Stellantis has a proactive approach with its social partners, for example in order to
support working parents. A company agreement was signed in 2014 in France with all trade unions to establish an
innovative social cohesion system based on the values of solidarity and mutual assistance.
Under this agreement, employees can donate days off to parents with a sick child, anonymously and without receiving
anything in return. The donated days are banked in a Solidarity Fund created for this purpose and is managed by the
workplace social services. In 2016 a new agreement extended the program to spouses, common-law spouses and
partners. Starting in 2020, another agreement extends this program to employees who are caregivers of a dependent
or disabled relative. This program has received a strong response.
In 2022, 192 days have been donated. 384 days were granted to 27 employees to help them cope with a variety of
situations including illness, disability or accidents.
The result of the Equity Index in France for the companies “PSA Automobile S.A” confirms that the policies implemented,
particularly in the area of wages, have had a positive impact and encourages us to continue our efforts to promote
professional equality between women and men.
Year Equity Index
2022 94
2021 89
2020 94
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
GRI 2-4 GRI 202-2 3.3.8 DETAILED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
GRI 405-1 GRI 405-2
3.3.8.1 Parental Leave by gender
Year Men Women Total
2022 22,219 9,303 31,522
Parental leave entitled
2021 16,202 5,883 22,085
2022 4,249 7,515 11,764
Parental leave used
2021 3,967 2,877 6,844
Back to work after parental 2022 3,997 1,397 5,394
leave (in the reporting period
only) 2021 3,093 1,326 4,419
3.3.8.2 Top executive by age and gender*
Up to 30 years 31 to 50 years Over 50 years Total
Year Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total
2022 0 0 0 0 5 5 5 26 31 5 31 36
Top executive team
2021 0 0 0 1 7 8 5 24 29 6 31 37
* CEO, SVPs and Deputies are not appearing in the table above'
3.3.8.3 Ethnicity - Stellantis in the U.S.
(%) 2022*
%
White 55.7%
Black/African American 36.1%
Asian / Pacific Islander 3.5%
Hispanic / Latino 3.6%
American Indian / Alaskan Native 0.3%
Do not wish to identify 0.9%
* 2022 data refers to U.S. only and are not comparable with 2021 data (which referred to North America)
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.3.8.4 Workforce by geographic area, gender and age
Women Men
Year Up to 30 yo 31-50 yo Over 50 yo Total Up to 30 yo 31-50 yo Over 50 yo Total Total
2022 2,350 14,350 9,560 26,260 8,173 51,124 53,448 112,745 139,005
Enlarged Europe
2021 2,864 16,572 8,659 28,095 9,707 62,295 50,710 122,712 150,807
2022 2,845 11,375 6,814 21,034 10,450 29,959 24,529 64,938 85,972
North America
2021 3,820 12,576 6,212 22,608 12,743 33,102 22,836 68,681 91,289
2022 1,949 3,237 249 5,435 4,700 15,401 3,430 23,531 28,966
South America
2021 1,515 3,116 187 4,818 5,199 16,626 2,709 24,534 29,352
2022 642 449 25 1,116 2,271 1,803 121 4,195 5,311
Middle East & Africa
2021 729 502 49 1,280 2,676 1,838 189 4,703 5,983
2022 274 716 46 1,036 874 2,490 278 3,642 4,678
China and India & Asia Pacific
2021 192 732 40 964 655 2,324 221 3,200 4,164
2022 8,060 30,127 16,694 54,881 26,468 100,777 81,806 209,051 263,932
Total
2021 9,120 33,498 15,147 57,765 30,980 116,185 76,665 223,830 281,595
3.3.8.5 Workforce by geographic area, gender and type of contracts
Women Men
Year Fixed-term contract Permanent contract Total Fixed-term contract Permanent contract Total Total
2022 2,009 24,251 26,260 4,885 107,860 112,745 139,005
Enlarged Europe
2021 2,087 26,008 28,095 4,866 117,846 122,712 150,807
2022 2,689 18,345 21,034 6,107 58,831 64,938 85,972
North America
2021 2,932 19,676 22,608 6,864 61,817 68,681 91,289
2022 498 4,937 5,435 1,106 22,425 23,531 28,966
South America
2021 135 4,683 4,818 808 23,726 24,534 29,352
2022 188 928 1,116 1,066 3,129 4,195 5,311
Middle East & Africa
2021 339 941 1,280 2,286 2,417 4,703 5,983
2022 174 862 1,036 536 3,106 3,642 4,678
China and India & Asia Pacific
2021 114 850 964 455 2,745 3,200 4,164
2022 5,558 49,323 54,881 13,700 195,351 209,051 263,932
Total
2021 5,607 52,158 57,765 15,279 208,551 223,830 281,595
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.3.8.6 Workforce by geographic area, gender and category
Women Men
Year Blue collars White collars Top Management Total Blue collars White collars Top Management Total Total
2022 13,061 13,051 148 26,260 72,088 40,162 495 112,745 139,005
Enlarged Europe
2021 28,094 122,713 150,807
2022 16,958 4,004 72 21,034 49,457 15,250 231 64,938 85,972
North America
2021 22,608 68,681 91,289
2022 3,500 1,930 5 5,435 18,301 5,195 35 23,531 26,699
South America
2021 4,818 24,534 29,352
2022 418 697 1 1,116 2,907 1,278 10 4,195 5,311
Middle East & Africa
2021 1,280 4,703 5,983
2022 22 1,008 6 1,036 546 3,071 25 3,642 4,678
China and India & Asia Pacific
2021 964 3,200 4,164
2022 33,959 20,690 232 54,881 143,299 64,956 796 209,051 263,932
Total
2021 57,764 223,831 281,595
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.3.8.7 Employees with disability by category, geographic area and gender
Year Blue collars White collars Total %
2022 1,010 449 1,459 22%
Women
2021 1,135 416 1,551 22%
Enlarged Europe
2022 4,044 1,105 5,149 78%
Men
2021 4,283 1,122 5,405 78%
2022 212 49 261 24%
Women
2021 249 91 340 11%
North America
2022 557 256 813 76%
Men
2021 2,424 364 2,788 89%
2022 140 11 151 13%
Women
2021 114 23 137 11%
South America
2022 964 70 1,034 87%
Men
2021 1,043 76 1,119 89%
2022 2 2 4 27%
Women
2021 2 3 5 24%
Middle East & Africa
2022 5 6 11 73%
Men
2021 5 11 16 76%
2022 — — — —
Women
2021 — — — —
China and India & Asia Pacific
2022 1 2 3 100%
Men
2021 — 2 2 100%
2022 1,364 511 1,875 21%
Women
2021 1,5 533 2,033 18%
2022 5,571 1,439 7,010 79%
Total Men
2021 7,755 1,575 9,330 82%
2022 6,935 1,950 8,885 100%
Total
2021 9,255 2,108 11,363 100%
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.3.8.8 Nationality by category and gender
Categories Year Women Men Total of nationalities by category
Blue collars 2022 82 134 138
2021 81 130 134
White collars 2022 92 127 135
2021 100 143 149
Top Management 2022 19 30 35
2021 na na na
Total nationalities by gender 2022 117 155 162
2021 124 163 170
Number of managers with the
2022 8,130 30,251 38,381
nationality of the host country
% of managers with the nationality
2022 70% 72% 72%
of the host country
3.3.8.9 % of women in Top Management by age group
Under 30 years old 31 to 50 years old Over 50 years old
Top Management (EVP, SVP, VP) 0’% 31% 18%
3.3.8.10 Female / Male wage* ratio by category
Year Mean Median
Blue collars 2022 0.94 0.92
2021 0.94 na
White collars 2022 0.91 0.92
2021 0.91 na
Top Management 2022 0.89 0.90
2021 na na
Global gender wage ratio 2022 0.93 0.92
* Annual basic salary (annual gross wage)
Only significant countries (over 300 employees in the category measured)
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.4 Health, safety and wellbeing in the workplace
3.4.1 CONTEXT AND STELLANTIS POSITION GRI 2-29 GRI 3-3
CSR issue/challenge #7: Wellbeing, health and safety in the workplace 7 Wellbeing, health and safety in the
workplace
Employee workplace wellbeing, health and safety is an increasing societal demand and a top priority for Stellantis.
We attend to employee safety, health and wellbeing by applying a methodical approach that involves stakeholders,
employees, employee representatives, the medical community and management.
After establishing the Stellantis Wellbeing, Health, and Safety policy in 2021, this year saw the implementation of
programs designed to bring the policy to life. Stellantis has put its people at the center of everything we do, using safety,
health and ergonomics as a foundation on which to build wellbeing. Successful implementation of these programs
will provide a competitive advantage in terms of absenteeism, reduced compensation costs, employee retention and
motivation and therefore company performance. This is a strong driver of our Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan related This is a strong driver of our
to its “Care” pillar and our ambition to be a great company to work for. Dare Forward 2030 strategic
plan related to its “Care” pillar
We innovate by challenging the status quo, such as remote working (New Era of Agility) encouraged where applicable to
and our ambition to be a great
reduce CO emissions associated with employee commutes and to expand wellbeing in the workplace, improve efficiency
2 company to work for
and quality of life by encouraging work-life balance.
Company’s public position
The Company allocates resources (e.g., standards, safe equipment and workstations, people, employee assistance
programs) for an approach that goes beyond health at work and contributes to healthy choices and lifestyle. It supports
the “Healthy Workplaces” initiative promoted by the European Union and the World Health Organization (WHO), as well
as similar initiatives in the U.S.
Stellantis’ commitment is demonstrated in the Wellbeing, Health and Safety policy, as well as in several collective
bargaining agreements.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.4.2 FORWARD-LOOKING VISION AND TARGETS GRI 3-3
Commitment scoreboard
CSR ISSUE/
CHALLENGE
VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT RESULTS
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term 2022 2021
(End of Strategic Plan)
7 Health, safety and Create a safe and Lost-time injury 2024: <1 2030: <1 2040: <1 1.25 1
wellbeing in the engaging work frequency rate
workplace environment promoting [LTIR /1,000,000 hwkd]
Owner: Chief employees’ health and
Human Resources & wellbeing at work for a
Transformation Officer greater work life balance
3.4.3 IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES GRI 3-3
For a company, Health and Safety performance at work has a direct impact on employee absenteeism and thus on
the ability to operate and on labor costs through lower productivity by loss of working time, cost of occupational
illnesses, etc. It can also affect the Company's reputation, impact staff morale or increase operating costs through fines
and other contingent liabilities. It is seen as an ethical responsibility, that is good for our people and good for our business.
The COVID-19 crisis highlighted the commitment, robustness, and ability of the Health and Safety community to provide the
relevant recommendations, based on the best knowledge available to leaders and managers to address an unprecedented
threat. An effective approach, including masking, vaccine promotion and workplace social distance allowed Stellantis
facilities to live with the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic with fewer business disruptions.
Risks
■ Physical Safety risks
Manufacturing facilities, if not properly managed, can potentially expose employees to risks that could lead to injury
or illness. Effective Risk Management and Reduction procedures are in place to identify and correct activities in the
workplace that can lead to injury and illness.
■ Mental Health risks
Mental health risks encompass a wide array of conditions that lead to business risk and employee concerns. Risk
Analysis has widened and now includes the protection of the risks to which an employee could be exposed as a result
of his/her mission, including expanding protection from psychosocial risks beyond European Operations. Addressing
these risks results in a decrease in absenteeism, workplace violence and potential self-harm, but also in an increase of
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
■ Regulatory risks
As a global company, Stellantis operates in jurisdictions that regulate health and safety. These regulatory requirements
vary across the regions in which Stellantis operates. It is important to know these requirements to avoid noncompliance
and the potential for fines or other enforcement actions.
The Company’s actions and innovations to mitigate these risks
Stellantis is committed to prevent health and safety risks at work of employees. Preventing fatality, disability, injury and
illness by completing risk analysis to identify workplace hazards and potential exposures and implementing containment
and countermeasures to permanently reduce the identified risks. Stellantis promotes wellbeing, health and safety to
An effective management
support and enhance a healthy and engaged workforce. An effective management system provides efficient and simple
system provides efficient and
standards for critical hazards and follows up with a global audit process to ensure implementation. This management
simple standards for critical
system puts employees at the center of the solution, not treating them as the problem we need to control, so that each
hazards and follows up with a
contributes to improving the workplace.
global audit process to ensure
Opportunities implementation
The Stellantis Wellbeing, Health and Safety policy is based on the conviction that our actions have a significant impact on
many critical domains. It is a fundamental aspect of our social responsibility towards our employees and all the people working
in our facilities as well as the mark of the Company’s respect for each of the individuals who are part of it:
■ bringing to life the Wellbeing, Health and Safety policy can improve the social climate and embodies our corporate
values and its impact on our people’s sense of belonging;
● Caring for our people is essential to our Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan as a strong driver to become a great
company to work for. Being able to understand employee experiences and to identify our strengths and areas of
improvement allows us to contribute to the Company growth and performance. That is the reason why the first
global employee survey was launched in September 2022. The results of this survey provided us with the critical For more information refer to 3.1.7
data, at the global, local and team level, to drive improvement and strengthen our Company.
● This first survey will be followed by a dedicated global survey on psychosocial risks in 2023, to provide managers, HR
and health and safety specialists with accurate and relevant data worldwide.
■ Taking care of our people and acting to reduce injuries has direct and positive consequences on absenteeism, which is
important for all our operations;
● In keeping with safety industry thought leaders, Stellantis has shifted focus to concentrate on the prevention of
life altering injuries in its facilities. The identification of the true root cause of these life changing injuries, known
as Serious Injuries and Fatalities (SIF), and incidents that could have resulted in a life changing injury but did not,
known as potential Serious Injuries and Fatalities (pSIF), is required in each Stellantis location. All manufacturing
locations have been trained on how to identify a pSIF incident so that measures could be put in place to prevent
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
■ acting to promote wellbeing and motivation through global and local actions is also a strong lever to improve productivity,
quality, innovation and the capability of our workforce to adapt positively to current and future challenges we will have
to face and changes we will have to create.
3.4.4 GOVERNANCE AND DECISION BODIES TO LEAD ACTIONS GRI 3-3 GRI 403-1 GRI 403-8
The governance process is overseen by the Strategy Council. In monthly business reviews the results related to wellbeing, GRI 413-1
health and safety are presented and discussed with the analysis of the impact on operations. Those indicators include
safety results and responses to employee surveys.
WELLBEING, HEALTH AND SAFETY GOVERNANCE
WHS Executive Council
Validation of the WHS Policy
Human Resources and Transformation
Audit and Compliance Wellbeing, Health, and Safety (WHS)
Corporate WHS Audit
Corporate WHS Regional WHS
Standards Operations
Systems Program implementation
Internal WHS Audit Site WHS Management
Joint Management / Worker H&S Committees
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
The Corporate Wellbeing Health and Safety (WHS) organization ensures proper coordination of WHS activities, processes
and targets throughout the regional Stellantis organizations. In each region, a Wellbeing, Health and Safety leader is
appointed and is in charge of contributing to the global policy, implementing programs, engaging the operations in the
region and providing the regional top management with results and analysis. Because the Health and Safety domain is
part of the Stellantis Production Way management system , key indicators of the manufacturing operations include For more information refer to 3.4.6
Health and Safety related indicators, among which are Total Recordable Injury Rate, Lost Time Injury Rate, Serious Injuries,
and absenteeism. To be launched in 2023, a proactive approach to Health and Safety is tracked via the “Care Index”,
measuring the level of maturity of Health and Safety System Implementation in our sites. The Care Index includes key
measurables from Safety, Health, Wellbeing, Ergonomics and Systems maturity . For more information refer to 3.4.7
Company employees represented
JOINT HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE
92%
In North America, U.S. and Canada, weekly meetings are held to review changes in employee safety activities,
procedural updates and other opportunities for improvement are undertaken by the Joint Health and Safety Committee
comprised of representative of Management and Labor Union.
Joint management-worker health
and safety committees
The dialogue concerning improvement of employee health and safety with employee representative bodies, in accordance
266
with current laws and the collective bargaining agreements, has continued. In most host countries, joint management-
worker organizations are in charge of monitoring the application of employee health and safety practices. 92% of Company
employees are represented by 266 joint management-worker health and safety committees.
3.4.5 POLICIES TO EXECUTE THE STRATEGY GRI 3-3 GRI 403-4 GRI 403-6
We Care for the Future is one of four core values of Stellantis. Care extends not only to the environment, but also GRI 403-8
to our people. Managers are accountable for the wellbeing and motivation of their teams. In fact, this is one of
the leadership behaviors by which Stellantis managers are evaluated and is a direct demonstration of the Company’s
commitment to the betterment of our employee’s lives. Caring for our people is part of our Dare Forward 2030 strategic
plan to build a great company to work for.
Our commitments related to wellbeing, health and safety are also grounded in several Company policies:
■ The Code of Conduct with commitments about protecting our workforce that refers to ensuring health and safety and
promoting wellbeing and a healthy lifestyle.
■ The Wellbeing, Health and Safety policy is defined as part of the Human Resources ambitions for Stellantis. This formal
document was signed by Carlos Tavares and all Executive Vice Presidents and communicated to all employees in October 2021.
Acting in a proactive and structured mode and building our Wellbeing, Health and Safety program will be a competitive advantage
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
We act to:
■ prevent fatality, disability, injury and illness;
■ promote health and safety to support and enhance a healthy and engaged workforce;
■ empower everyone so that each contributes to improvement of the workplace;
■ deploy an efficient management system to provide strong standards, measure our results and impacts and support our
continuous improvement.
In order to live up to our Wellbeing, Health and Safety policy, Stellantis created a wellbeing and motivation program,
labeled “We All Care”, based on five pillars that highlight the priority levers on which to act . For more information refer to 3.4.7
Health and safety agreements
Stellantis is committed to implement the best occupational health and safety standards and practices and has made
health and safety a top priority. This commitment is demonstrated in the Wellbeing, Health and Safety Policy, as well as
in several national Company agreements with employee representatives. Each year, health and safety agreements are
signed in the countries where the Company operates. There were 22 health and safety agreements signed in 2022.
3.4.6 ORGANIZATION AND RESOURCES GRI 3-3 GRI 403-2 GRI 403-3
Stellantis wants global health and safety standards no matter where in the world we operate. GRI 403-4 GRI 403-5
The Stellantis Production Way (SPW), Health and Safety domain is dedicated to improving health and safety in a
systematic manner by involving the entire manufacturing organization and encompassing all phases of production.
It includes a combination of preventive measures and collaboration of employees.
■ Employees are involved through training that focuses on the importance of safeguarding health and safety; complying
with policies and procedures; and promoting appropriate prevention behaviors across all organizational levels and roles.
■ Operators are also engaged in initiatives designed to increase safety awareness and participate in a comprehensive Operators are also engaged
system for gathering feedback and suggestions. Through the Work-Related Alert and Safety Conversation tools, useful in initiatives designed to
and implementable ideas are put into practice, shared across multiple facilities, with the project owners recognized for increase safety awareness and
their involvement. participate in a comprehensive
system for gathering feedback
The SPW Health and Safety domain applies risk management and reduction, both on a routine and non-routine basis,
and suggestions
with the purpose of singling out major risk areas and implementing preventive action plans. Risk areas include physical,
ergonomic, chemical and psychosocial risks. The Hierarchy of Controls methodology is then used to determine the proper
countermeasures. Supervisors and managers are expected to continually work to reduce risk level of their top risks and
to assess the daily mood of their employees.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Based on the SPW Health and Safety domain, the Global Care Management System (GCMS) is an integrated management
system that recognizes not all processes designed for manufacturing work in a non-manufacturing setting, while also
comprehending that much of the Health and Safety domain requirements are in fact, universal. The GCMS concerns every
person that works on Stellantis sites, including employees of service provider companies.
The way this is accomplished is by testing the applicability of each requirement to determine if it does apply, does not
apply or must be adapted to fit the non-manufacturing setting. This ensures that wellbeing, health and safety are
considered, planned and implemented everyday at Stellantis operations.
STELLANTIS PRODUCTION WAY SYSTEM
STELLANTIS PRODUCTION WAY
Manufacturing
Health
Clarification
and Safety
Documents
Fundamentals
retliF
ytilibacilppA
GLOBAL CARE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Non-Manufacturing
Warehouse requirements
Retail requirements
R&D Centers requirements
All Other Non-manufacturing
requirements
With the Global Care Management System, Stellantis is compliant with the occupational health and safety
recommendations of the International Labour Organization (ILO OSH 2001) and performs its obligations in all countries.
Encompassing ISO 45001 requirements, the GCMS is a means to assess, monitor and manage risks systematically.
There are 42 European sites that have an Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems certified according to
ISO 45001:2018 standard.
As an additional control, an internal auditing program has been established. The audit scope includes activities that are
most likely to produce SIF and pSIF incidents, safety, health, ergonomics and wellbeing. The 24 audits of Stellantis sites
were completed by WHS Corporate in 2022. Regions and Audit and Compliance conducted additional audits.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Worker representatives are involved in Stellantis health and safety processes. Areas where worker representatives
participate in health and safety processes include, but are not limited to, incident reviews, job risk analysis, safety
observation tours and periodic health and safety reviews. Where there are formal joint management worker health and
safety committees, there are no bargaining unit workers that are not represented by these committees.
Safety resources
Physical safety can impact many parts of the business. Employees that are concerned for their safety will not be able to
concentrate on the job at hand. The need for safety in our operations is driven not only by how the lack thereof can impact
business results, but more importantly by a moral imperative to return people home in the same condition as they arrived.
Each manufacturing unit in Stellantis is staffed with qualified safety professionals to ensure not only that our facilities
are in regulatory compliance but also to develop capability in our teams to identify and manage safety risk. Non-
manufacturing locations, such as the retail Stellantis & You organization also have dedicated safety resources to manage
the unique safety risks associated with non-manufacturing activities. In total, there are 314 employees dedicated to
assuring safety in Stellantis facilities.
Medical resources
Fulfilling requirements of local regulations, that differ from country to country, a team of 600 physicians and 604 nurses Physicians Nurses
focus on prevention, occupational follow up, emergency care and health promotion. Local workers at all Stellantis
600 604
sites have access to medical resources. Stellantis believes that health must be taken as a holistic matter and achieving
occupational health goals requires improvement of the comprehensive health of the employee.
Prevention covers the activities dedicated to occupational risks and exposure assessment related to any health
consequence from work activities. Occupational follow up includes monitoring, examinations to check for exposure
consequence, assess fitness to work and any potential limitations. It includes individual follow up by physicians, trained
nurses, physiotherapists, and/or psychologists to consider early symptoms, either physical or psychological, before
requiring long or complex treatment and fosters sustainable employability.
Stellantis Health teams are dedicated to the care of employees while respecting their right to confidentiality and Stellantis Health teams are
professional secrecy. The health-related information collected through internal occupational Health services is kept under dedicated to the care of
the responsibility of the physician in charge, supported by the country Health coordination. Many countries implement an employees while respecting
IT solution to store them, implement and monitor the Occupational Health processes. Each IT solution is compliant with their right to confidentiality and
the country regulation. professional secrecy
Emergency care is organized in every facility with internal resources or external support to address critical medical
situations.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Ergonomics: strong asset
The team of 89 Stellantis ergonomists works with the objective of promoting ergonomics to improve employees working
conditions and overall efficiency within the Company. This team is divided into three teams:
■ the Trade Ergonomists team is responsible for standards development and ensuring the deployment of the Company’s
guidelines and tools;
■ the Project Ergonomists team works with manufacturing engineering to ensure that ergonomic standards are met
when purchasing and installing new equipment and new programs;
■ the Site Ergonomists team analyzes and improves ergonomics at their respective facilities.
The objective of each team is to design a user interface adapted to physical capabilities, to prevent the deterioration of
working conditions and its consequences both on individuals e.g., health, particularly musculoskeletal diseases and on the
related costs for Stellantis such as loss of full-time equivalents, cost of occupational diseases, etc.
3.4.7 MAIN INITIATIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND RESULTS GRI 3-3 GRI 403-3 GRI 403-5
GRI 403-6 GRI 403-9
Training and prevention programs
There are mandatory training and certification requirements targeted to operations and facilities. We provide health and safety
protocols and recommendations regardless of where the workplace is located, on-site, home or remote working locations.
Training hours dedicated to safety
Based on accident analysis and risk assessment, specific training programs are developed and deployed at all sites. In
2022, 350,717 hours of training were dedicated to safety (versus 363,410 in 2021). 350,717
A global e-learning overview on WHS was launched during the We All Care Days and completed by 10,000 employees.
The learning includes our ambitions and the principles of our We All Care Policy. In addition to ensuring HR leaders
understand the importance of WHS activities, a WHS leadership masterclass was attended by the top 240 HR managers
in the Company.
HEALTH AND SAFETY PROFESSIONALS IN CANADA
In Canada every managed site or division has one or more health and safety professionals, depending on the employee
population of the site, employed by Stellantis. These employees are responsible for executing the Company's
occupational health and safety management system. Manufacturing locations are certified to ISO 45001 and utilize the
plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle of continual improvement to reduce injury rates and meet obligations.
Non-manufacturing locations utilize the same PDCA principles to achieve continual improvement.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Communication of Expectations
To support the policy of reporting hazards, the corporation communicates via the Stellantis Production Way - "Can Do"
booklet and other global communication forums the three essential behaviors for safety:
■ Stop if you are not trained for a task or if your safety is at risk.
■ Speak Up and intervene if you have a concern for anyone's safety.
■ Listen if someone shows concern for your safety and resolve the concern together.
At a local level, sites have completed risk assessments for workstations and tasks that promote application of the hierarchy
of controls. They review those risk assessments after incidents and injuries occur. All accidents are analyzed using the plan-
do-check-act (PDCA) cycle methodology, through the accident analysis tool. At a regional and global level, standards
are developed that sites must assess their conformance to and progress plans to close nonconformance. These
standards define actions in line with the hierarchy of controls and are support by good practices. The main types of work-
related injuries were, 1. laceration, primarily finger and hand injuries, 2. contusion 3. strains and strains from slip/trip and fall.
Regarding safety, our vision is to provide world class levels safety which means the following ambitions:
■ Zero fatalities over three years.
■ 50% reduction in Total Recordable Injury Rate by 2030.
■ The Lost Time Injury Rate always below 1.
We have a comprehensive roadmap to reach those targets with specific actions such as Serious Injury and Fatality All our fundamentals and
elimination plan or specific Care Index to develop a more proactive approach. All our fundamentals and standards related standards related to health and
safety are part of the Stellantis
to health and safety are part of the Stellantis Production Way management system which ensures a strong and consistent
Production Way management
implementation in our manufacturing operations.
system which ensures a strong
HEALTH and consistent implementation
in our manufacturing operations
Ergonomics
The Ergonomics team takes a comprehensive and collaborative approach to identify the Top 10 critical workstations such
as impact on safety, quality, etc., and provide different solutions based on the best practices implemented within the
Stellantis scope. The focus is on manufacturing Business Units, including General assembly, Painting, Welding, Chassis,
Powertrain, and Press shop. The team then uses indicators to monitor compliance with ergonomics criteria in the different
milestones of vehicle and powertrain projects.
Workplace social services for employees
The main role of social workers is to facilitate job integration by assisting employees dealing with issues in their personal
and professional life that are having an impact on their occupation. Social services are a place to discuss issues
and be listened to. They also provide specialist advice to managers and help implement the corporate social policy.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Stellantis provides a hotline for employees with possible face-to-face follow up Employee Assistance Programs (EAP).
Each region has its own programs that are tailored to the specific needs of the region. China and South America launched
launching their EAP in 2022. Workplace social services are provided to all employees through a network of 91 internal and
external social workers at office and manufacturing facilities. In North America, Stellantis offers off-site Family, Health and
Wellness Centers to provide medical care for our employees and their families as well as on-site Health Coaches.
Mental and Musculoskeletal Health
In addition to the management system in place, a health action plan, focusing on mental health and musculoskeletal
health, has been built to be sustainably implemented through the whole organization. This Health action plan gathers the
best practices to prevent illnesses from occurring. After this first phase, the implementation is ongoing throughout the
different regions, to reach a homogeneous result.
On mental health, actions to be extended are: training and masterclasses, EAP programs, available specialized support, On mental health, actions to
dedicated surveys, and mental health first aiders. In one third of the Company, we have the experience of monitoring various be extended are: training and
mental health indicators including the number of calls to EAP programs for psychological reasons, absenteeism related to masterclasses, EAP programs,
mental health issues, stress, wellbeing and motivation. Implementation of this monitoring for nearly all employees is planned available specialized support,
for 2023. This supports our efforts to support employee health, as well as the positive outcomes for teams and the organization. dedicated surveys, and mental
It enables health services to follow trends, provide feedback to management and results can be considered in order to act. health first aiders
MENTAL HEALTH
LeveMente Program in Brazil: Multidisciplinary monitoring with psychologists and psychiatrists, including care plans and
priority in scheduling appointments for employees and their families, who need Mental Health support.
In the UK the Mental Health First Aiders are employees trained to have an open mind to recognize mental health problems.
A Mental Health/Substance Use Disorder (MH/SUD) program is available in the U.S. for eligible employees, retirees and
their dependents. It provides confidential counseling, education and referral services to assist members with stress,
depression, anxiety, conflict management, managing emotions and substance use treatment and recovery. Covered
services include outpatient visits, inpatient admissions, partial hospitalization programs, psychological testing, care
management and utilization review.
For musculoskeletal health, good practices and tools are specified within the SPW. In addition to preventive and
corrective ergonomics, early care and treatment are promoted and implemented everywhere internal resources are
available. Those plans are empowered by focused health promotion actions to pursue mid- and long-term positive
consequences on the health and lives of all employees.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
SAFETY
Management of Business Partners
Majority holding joint ventures are included in our safety performance tracking and adopt common policies and processes.
Visitors receive information on arrival to a site regarding the health and safety rules they must follow; close working
relationships, with safety performance tracking, are established with temporary employment agencies in order to ensure
temporary employees receive appropriate training before arriving on site. This is supplemented with on-site training.
Contractual obligations for minimum safety standards are established with contractor companies that can only
work on site after risk assessments and method statements have been completed to ensure their interaction with our
operations will not create additional hazards. Audits on contractor activities are routine practice.
Prevention of SIF and pSIF incidents
A program of serious injury and fatality elimination is strategically overseen at a global level and promoted by the
development of common global standards for high-risk activities and the implementation of global “Call-to-Actions",
charging all sites with the implementation of common action plans to eliminate and control such high-risk hazards.
Hazards are systematically identified through workplace and task risk assessments and subsequently controlled. Workers Hazards are systematically
are trained to identify and report to their line supervisor, any situation that they consider could create harm. If a response identified through workplace
is not forthcoming for the line supervisor, workers may raise their concerns with a Health & Safety professional or their and task risk assessments and
employee representatives. subsequently controlled
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)
In 2020 Stellantis set targets for Total Recordable Injuries, those are injuries that need treatment beyond First Aid. By
2030 we want to reduce the rate of recordable injuries by 50%. Each entity has its own targets to achieve which are
closely followed. In 2022 the rate decreased by 2%.
TRIR decreases
Year Total Recordable Injury Rate
Enlarged Europe 2022 2.79 2%
North America 2022 5.63
South America 2022 4.75
Middle East & Africa 2022 3.97
China and India & Asia Pacific 2022 0
Total 2022 3.79
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
RISK ASSESSMENT
One of the first principles of prevention is to assess the risks involved in order to identify the most effective preventive
measures. The methodology used for the assessment, management, and reporting of occupational risks is developed
for example in Portugal through several Permanent Security Instructions (IPS).
The risk assessment is in accordance with the requirements set out in the legislation and regulations in force at the time of
the evaluation and is always carried out by trained technicians with the necessary professional accreditation, and whenever
required, with the participation of the hierarchy, the concerned personnel and other technical services of the company.
Once existing risks have been identified, their level of risk is assessed and measures are taken to reduce the risk.
We have multiple layered risk assessment processes based on the life-cycle of the activity and/or equipment.
Risk assessments must be completed for:
• routine and non-routine activities;
• activities of all persons having access to the workplace (including contractors, interns and visitors etc.);
• human capabilities and other human factors ;
For more information refer to 3.4.6
• identified hazards originating outside the workplace capable of adversely affecting the health and safety of persons
under the control of the organization within the workplace;
• hazards created in the vicinity of the workplace by work-related activities under the control of the organization;
• infrastructure, equipment and materials at the workplace, whether provided by the organization or others (Corporate
EHS conducts risk assessments for new equipment);
• changes or proposed changes in the organization, its activities or materials;
• modifications to the management system, including temporary changes and their impacts on operations, processes
and activities;
• any applicable legal obligations relating to risk assessment and implementation of necessary controls;
• the design of work areas, processes, installations, machinery/equipment, operating procedures and work
organization, including their adaptation to human capabilities.
WELLBEING
Dedicated Wellbeing Program
On the basis of its 'We All Care' policy on wellbeing, health and safety, signed by all of its senior managers, Stellantis makes
the wellbeing of its employees an essential commitment which, beyond its social and ethical dimension, constitutes a
win-win stake at the heart of its strategy, to support the company's sustainable performance.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
A DEDICATED PROGRAM: MY WELLBEING
In July 2022 Stellantis launched a new program dedicated to the wellbeing of all its employees: My Wellbeing. Through
this program, that supports the Care pillar in the Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan, Stellantis has an ambitious vision of
its employees' wellbeing, which complements its health and safety fundamentals, occupational health, safety, ergonomics
and contributes to making Stellantis a great company to work for.
MY WELLBEING PROGRAM
WELLBEING
Health & Safety fundamentals
HEALTH
Safety Ergonomics Occupational health
& SAFETY
The 'My Wellbeing' program is based on five action levers, corresponding to the key components of employees' overall
wellbeing:
My Body: referring to the employee's physical wellbeing, with a particular focus on promoting actions in favor of health
and physical activity.
My Mind: in reference to the employee's mental wellbeing, with the aim of taking care of mental health and preventing
psychosocial risks, in particular by raising awareness on mindfulness, work/life balance, etc.
My Job: dealing with the professional wellbeing of the employee, via career and skills development, managerial skills, by
promoting new hybrid ways of working, etc.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
My Community: related to the social wellbeing of the employee, by developing diversity and inclusion within the company,
social relations and networking, notably through volunteering actions, etc.
My Resources: refers to the financial wellbeing of the employee, notably through total reward approach (compensation
and benefits), financial advice, etc.
Sport, Fitness and Nutrition
To support our workforce in a healthy lifestyle is beneficial for the individual, the Company and society. Stellantis therefore To support our workforce
offers a variety of health and nutrition programs, sports groups, training facilities, and coaches. For example, Stellantis in a healthy lifestyle is
sponsors employee sport teams in several global regions, nutrition and wellness coaches are available in North America beneficial for the individual,
the Company and society
and several different gaming clubs are offered in China.
Better Work-Life Balance
Establishing a collaborative work method is incorporated into the social dialogue and applies to workspaces as well as
the expansion of remote working. The goal is to offer more flexible work arrangements without damaging collective
productivity. The New Era of Agility program is an innovative hybrid concept allowing eligible employees to remote work
up to 70% . This allows employees to work from home or another location. Enhancing work-life balance leads to better For more information refer to 3.2.7
performance and prevents stress as well as adding flexibility across the various regions by reducing commute time.
In several countries we have established the right to disconnect either in the contracts, charters, policies or internal
communications. For example promotion of the fair use of digital tools, making them compatible with health and
wellbeing. It comes to ensuring respect of the resting time and professional and personal life balance, avoiding the risk
of digital fatigue linked to continuous use of digital means. With this aim, and taking into consideration project New Era
of Agility extension, as well as our new modes of work conditioned by the pandemic COVID-19, the Company has set up
ten guidelines to be spread to all employees about digital disconnection as well as proper use of electronic devices and
digital tools.
Capitalizing on that, the Company willingly offers employees part-time schedules or teleworking arrangements when this
is feasible. Where possible, the Company approves employees’ requests to work part-time. The aim is to devise suitable
solutions, such as part-time by the day or half day, part-time in hours, etc. Part-time hours are chosen by employees
and are not imposed by the Company. In 2022, the Company had 13,655 part-time employees worldwide (including 2,267
employees who worked half-time), distributed as follows: 43% women and 57% men.
In 2022 635 employees used the possibility to take a sabbatical.
Sabbatical
1 to 3 months 4 to 6 months 7 months to 1 year Over 1 year
Number of employees 202 77 158 198
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
Company wide Promotion Events
To demonstrate the WHS program, two relevant events were held. The first was World Day for Safety and Health at Work
on April 28.
This commemoration organized by the International Labour Organization (ILO), in 2022 focused on: "To Build a positive
Safety & Health Culture, let's act together". This theme echoes the Stellantis' Wellbeing Health and Safety policy, signed
by the Company's top executives. Stellantis employees and managers were asked to make a pledge committing to work
safely. This important commitment document was signed globally across the company in 31 countries and 264 sites. At
the same time, strong local actions were implemented to support this commemoration. For example: China implemented a
webinar related to COVID-19 with some tips to follow during the lockdown in Shanghai. South America organized a specific
masterclass related to work remotely and the importance to take in account the ergonomics at home and in Europe a
dedicated masterclass was organized for leaders with an expert to talk about the importance of their commitment.
TO BUILD A POSITIVE HEALTH & SAFETY CULTURE, LET'S ACT TOGHETHER!
We All Care Days events in
351
sites
WELLBEING
MENTAL HEALTH PHYSICAL HEALTH OTHER TOPICS
& MOTIVATION
DAYS
In October 2022, the second annual We All Care Days event took place:
Four days of information and activities were shared with our employees. Several content, communications and local
actions created awareness about relevant topics that impact our level of wellbeing. A focus was laid to increase
awareness about topics related to Wellbeing & Motivation, Mental Health and Physical Health. In addition, each Region
supported other topics considering the specificities of countries and/or sites. The event was implemented across the
company in 33 countries and 351 sites. For instance: South America launched the Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
providing Psychological, Social and Financial support to their employees. China reinforced with the employees during
the day dedicated to Mental Health their EAP implemented at the begin of the year. Europe and Middle East and Africa
implemented the program "Every Move Counts" with the objective to promote physical activity. North America deployed
52 local events in the plants.
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.4.8 DETAILED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS GRI 403-9 GRI 403-10
3.4.8.1 Absenteeism* by geographic area and type of benefits
Occupational and Other absences
Year Sick leaves Maternity and paternity leaves commuting accidents excluding vacations Total
2022 11,066,415 1,338,880 415,742 3,931,841 16,752,879
Enlarged Europe
2021 9,333,229 1,155,202 369,746 3,294,095 14,152,272
2022 4,099,652 126,034 479,769 20,494,511 25,199,966
North America
2021 5,504,884 202,012 237,642 7,766,077 13,710,615
2022 2,245,459 197,799 51,812 609,467 3,104,537
South America
2021 2,469,604 16,507 5,939,574 8,678 9,442,048
2022 56,129 32,966 2,987 258,073 350,155
Middle East & Africa
2021 131,072 30,609 1,067 152,475 315,223
2022 70,387 77,446 205 168,898 316,935
China and India & Asia Pacific
2021 72,086 79,879 364 147,458 299,787
2022 17,538,042 1,773,124 950,515 25,462,790 45,724,472
Total
2021 17,510,875 1,632,772 6,548,393 12,227,905 37,919,945
* Number of hours of absence excluding vacations all U.S. absence are included in the category other absences
3.4.8.2 Number of Work Related and Non-Work (employees and temporary workers) related Injuries by geographic area
Year Total
2022 608
Enlarged Europe
2021 776
2022 906
North America
2021 881
2022 233
South America
2021 140
2022 39
Middle East & Africa
2021 45
2022 22
China and India & Asia Pacific
2021 7
2022 1,808
Total
2021 1,849
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.4.8.3 Number of work Related Injuries (employees) by geographic area and type of injury
(not including travel from home)
Year Contusion Laceration Strain & Sprain Fracture Foreign Body Crush Burn Other Undefined Total
2022 148 126 25 48 11 17 7 31 88 501
Enlarged Europe
2021 776
2022 246 217 249 100 25 12 7 32 12 900
North America
2021 881
2022 73 59 23 20 4 5 10 12 16 222
South America
2021 140
2022 3 25 3 2 0 1 0 1 4 39
Middle East & Africa
2021 45
2022 0 4 0 4 0 9 1 2 0 20
China and India & Asia Pacific
2021 7
2022 470 431 300 174 40 44 25 78 120 1,682
Total
2021 1,849
3.4.8.4 Number of work Related Injuries (workers not employees but whose work / workplace is controlled
by the organization) by geographic area and type of injury
Contusion Laceration Sprain & Strain Burn Foreign Body Fracture Crush Undefined Total
Enlarged Europe 42 28 5 2 1 3 26 107
North America 1 4 1 6
South America 8 3 11
Middle East & Africa 0
China and India & Asia Pacific 1 1 2
Total 51 33 6 2 1 3 1 29 126
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.4.8.5 Lost Time Injury Rate by geographic area
(per 1,000,000 hours worked)
Year Employees Temporary workers Contractors Total
2022 1.36 5.39 0.68 1.42
Enlarged Europe
2021 1.5
2022 0.62 0.00 1.64 0.62
North America
2021 0.6
2022 3.00 15.08 4.26 3.16
South America
2021 0.9
2022 0.82 0.00 0.00 0.82
Middle East & Africa
2021 0.5
2022 0.49 1.12 0.38 0.51
China and India & Asia Pacific
2021 0.2
2022 1.20 5.89 1.54 1.25
Total
2021 1
* Total does not include the Contractors
3.4.8.6 Fatalities, high-consequence and recordable work-related injury
(Number and Rate)
Fatalities as a result High-consequence Recordable
of work-related injury work-related injuries work-related injuries
Year Number Rate Number Rate Number Rate
2022 0 0.00 156 0.32 1808 3.79
3.4.8.7 Fatal Accidents
Year Number Rate
2022 0 0
Total workforce
2021 1 0.0021
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.4.8.8 Severity rate by contract and geographic area
Year Employees Temporary workers Total
2022 0.05 0.11 0.05
Enlarged Europe
2021 0.12
2022 0.05 0 0.05
North America
2021 0.04
2022 0.06 0.08 0.06
South America
2021 0.04
2022 0.03 0 0.03
Middle East & Africa
2021 0.01
2022 0 0 0
China and India & Asia Pacific
2021 0.01
2022 0.05 0.08 0.05
Total
2021 0.07
3.4.8.9 Serious injuries by geographic area and type of accident
Equipment Pedestrian Over Energy
Hazard Transportation Falling Mobile in-plant the road Emergency Control/
Fall /Failure /Storage Object Equipment vehicle Guarding Rigging vehicle /Security Lockout Electrical Total
Enlarged Europe 15 1 5 2 7 10 3 8 1 52
North America 30 20 1 8 5 7 71
South America 3 2 7 4 4 2 1 2 1 26
Middle East & Africa 1 1 1 3
China and India & Asia Pacific 1 1 1 1 4
Total 50 24 14 14 12 10 10 9 7 4 1 1 156
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.4.8.10 Serious injuries (30 days or more) by contract and type of accident
Equipment Transportation
Year Fall Failure /storage Falling Object Other Total
Employees 2022 50 24 14 14 54 156
Total 2022 50 24 14 14 54 156
3.4.8.11 2022 Commuting Injury Frequency Rate
Total
Number of commuting injuries 808
Commuting injury frequency rate 0.94
3.4.8.12 Occupational Illnesses by type of illness
Year Number of occupational illness
2022 641
Musculo-Skeletal Disorders
(MSD) 2021 555
2022 8
Carrying heavy loads
2021 5
2022 49
Deafness
2021 17
2022 23
Asbestos
2021 21
2022 50
Other
2021 42
2022 771
Total
2021 640
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.4.8.13 Occupational Illnesses Frequency Rate by geographic area
Year Rate
2022 1.35
Enlarged Europe
2021 1.23
2022 2.76
North America
2021 2.24
2022 0.79
South America
2021 0.07
2022 0
Middle East & Africa
2021 0.2
2022 0.04
China and India & Asia Pacific
2021 0
2022 1.69
Total
2021 1.32
3.4.8.14 Occupational accidents by contract - geographic area
Number of accident including travel for work and travel from home
Employee 501
Enlarged Europe
Temporary workers 107
Employee 900
North America
Temporary workers 6
Employee 222
South America
Temporary workers 11
Employee 39
Middle East & Africa
Temporary workers 0
Employee 20
China and India & Asia Pacific
Temporary workers 2
Employee 1,682
Total Temporary workers 126
Total 1,808
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.4.8.15 Occupational Accidents
Number Recordable Injury Rate
Temporary Temporary
Year Employee workers Total Employee workers Total
2022 1,682 126.00 1,808 3.57 24.73 3.79
2021 1,849 3.8
3.4.8.16 Total Recordable Injury Rate table
Year Total
Enlarged Europe 2022 2.79
North America 2022 5.63
South America 2022 4.75
Middle East & Africa 2022 3.97
China and India & Asia Pacific 2022 0
2022 3.79
Total
2021 3,8
3.4.8.17 OHS certification
(Stellantis worldwide)
Certified OHSAS18001 or ISO45001 Internal OHSMS
Year by third party body implemented
2022 85 443
No of sites
2021 95 563
2022 96 315
No. of audits carried out
2021 104 410
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.4.8.18 Ergonomics works stations
(Stellantis worldwide)
Year Number %
2022 852 4%
red workstations
2021 3%
2022 9,073 38%
yellow workstations
2021 40%
2022 13,606 58%
green workstations
2021 56%
2022 23,531 100%
Total
2021 21,829 100%
3.4.8.19 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system
(number and %)
Employees Temporary workers Contractors*
Year Numbers % covered Numbers % covered Numbers % covered
Occupational H&S
management system 2022 245,394 93% 10,231 100% 27,232 100%
OHS management system
internally audited 2022 155,560 63% 6,943 68% 17,654 65%
OHS management system
audited or certified by an 2022 50,133 32% 3,068 44% 9,551 54%
external party
* Contractors in KPI 721: all Contractors on site (including intelligent services and other services)
LATIPAC
NAMUH
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
EHT
HGUORHT
NOITAMROFSNART
S’YNAPMOC
EHT
GNIVIRD
3
3.4.8.20 Health Service
(internal and external)
Year Internal (employed) External (contracted) Total
2022 67 533 600
Doctors (Physicians)
2021 93 395 488
2022 170 434 604
Health professionals (nurses)
2021 247 280 527
Number of social workers or 2022 26 65 91
equivalent service 2021 47 97 144
2022 64 25 89
Ergonomists
2021 65 34 99
3.4.8.21 Health Service
(number and ratio)
Year Number %
Sites with on-site medical
2022 228 56%
service
Sites without on-site medical 2022 177 44%
service
Employees covered 2022 257,444 98%
(with internal or external
health service) 2021 98.66%
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
4 MEETING CHANGING CUSTOMER
EXPECTATIONS ON MOBILITY
4.1 DEVELOPMENT OF NEW MOBILITY SOLUTIONS (INCLUDING AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES) 228
4.1.1 Context and Stellantis position 228
4.1.2 Forward-looking vision and targets 231
4.1.3 Identification and management of risks and opportunities 231
4.1.4 Governance and decision bodies to lead actions 235
4.1.5 Policies to execute the strategy 235
4.1.6 Organization and resources 236
4.1.7 Main initiatives, achievements and results 242
4.2 VEHICLE AND SERVICE QUALITY - CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 250
4.2.1 Context and Stellantis position 250
4.2.2 Forward-looking vision and targets 251
4.2.3 Identification and management of risks and opportunities 252
4.2.4 Governance and decision bodies to lead actions 255
4.2.5 Policies to execute the strategy 256
4.2.6 Organization and resources 258
4.2.7 Main initiatives, achievements and results 264
4.3 VEHICLE SAFETY 271
4.3.1 Context and Stellantis position 271
4.3.2 Forward-looking vision and targets 272
4.3.3 Identification and management of risks and opportunities 272
4.3.4 Governance and decision bodies to lead actions 274
4.3.5 Policies to execute the strategy 274
4.3.6 Organization and resources 274
4.3.7 Main initiatives, achievements and results 277
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
STELLANTIS’ CSR MACRO-RISK/PILLAR III. MEETING CHANGING CUSTOMER
EXPECTATIONS ON MOBILITY
The automotive market is faced with competition from established players as well as newcomers in the mobility sector,
in particular digital and tech companies. It must take into account a variety of different needs and evolving contexts,
considering trends such as increasing urbanization and traffic congestion, the need of customers to find mobility solutions
going beyond vehicle ownership, and the contributions that technologies can provide to road users in terms of experience
and safety. All these elements affect automakers strategy, operations and results as are assessed and challenged by
customers and other stakeholders.
Stellantis understands these requirements and pays close attention to the mobility trends. We intend to provide
opportunities for consumers by developing new mobility solutions with high-quality products and services with the goal
to execute flawless customer relationship management.
To meet market expectations, the Company’s processes and decisions are customer-focused, to design affordable, reliable,
safe and high-quality products and services and complementary solutions to meet mobility needs around the world.
4.1 Development of new mobility solutions (including autonomous
vehicles)
4.1.1 CONTEXT AND STELLANTIS POSITION
GRI 3-3
CSR issue/challenge #8: Development of new mobility solutions (including autonomous
vehicles) 8 Development of new mobility solutions
(including autonomous vehicles)
Social, environmental and technical evolutions impact customer mobility behavior and expectations. Nowadays, vehicles
which were traditionally perceived as a tangible asset, are now more likely to be seen as a mobility device, especially by
groups such as Millennials and Generation Z who are less interested in owning or driving a vehicle, for economical or
ecological reasons and due to their specific mobility needs.
This evolution has particularly accelerated in recent years and has been embraced by more than just young generations of
customers. Since 2020, due to long periods of confinement during the COVID-19 crisis in many countries and the extensive
deployment of remote work, one can observe a completely different approach to mobility, with consequences that might
have a significant impact in the years to come.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
At Stellantis, we are aware of these challenges and our business model includes mobility service offerings with
Free2move and Leasys. Leasys is the medium- and long-term rental company of FCA Bank – FCA Bank transferred
their interest to LeaseCo a joint venture held 50 percent by both Stellantis and Crédit Agricole. Leasys’ perimeter this
year is different from that one of the last year: in the CSR Report of 2021 Leasys included long-, medium- and short-
term rental and carsharing, but now Leasys is just medium and long term rental. This because in December 2021,
Stellantis and Crédit Agricole announced the acquisition in 2023 by Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance of the shares of
FCA Bank and Leasys Rent (the company that was included in the 2021 CSR Report’s Leasys perimeter that offered
medium- and short-term rental services and carsharing) held by Stellantis; only Leasys, the medium- and long-term rental
company, will remain as an equal joint venture between Stellantis and Crédit Agricole. This change is also reflected in the
KPIs reported in this year’s CSR Report. Leasys data includes only the low emission vehicles in the fleet and the revenues
streams of the low emission vehicles in the fleet of Leasys perimeter which includes only medium- and long-term rental . PRESS RELEASE
For its part, Free2move (F2M) is a global marketplace offering a range of services to satisfy the multiple travel needs Stellantis to Strengthen the Potential of Its
of its customers from one minute to several days or months with carsharing service, short, medium- or long-term European Financing Businesses
rental. One of their goals is to bolster energy transition by helping customers switch to Low Emission Vehicles (LEV) https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
press-releases/2021/december/stellantis-to-
with innovative services such as the subscription offer of Free2move which enable customers to experience an EV on
strengthen-the-potential-of-its-european-
a month-to-month basis and thus will help accelerate EV adoption. financing-businesses
The Company continues the research and development of technologies in order to develop future mobility options
including means of transport such as driverless autonomous vehicles.
Company’s public position
The importance of individual choice over freedom of movement and flexible mobility means that vehicles have an
important place today and in the future. Vehicles play a major role in a multi-modal ecosystem that aims at optimizing the
efficiency of transport systems, particularly outside cities where alternative solutions are not always available. New uses
and therefore new services are being created.
Carsharing, for example, is a way to support the change in customer behavior from ownership to usage. This shift can be
motivated by economic, practical or environmental reasons. Carsharing is also part of the growing concept of intermodality
and is a link in the chain between bike-sharing, public transport, etc. It allows customers to rationalize their mobility
according to their specific needs. Also, it is a good entry point for users to discover our services and ultimately to use our
short-term and middle-term rental services.
Shared mobility services as well as Mobility-as-a-Service (MaaS) platforms will get more efficient as the level of driving
automation increases. The purpose of Stellantis: “Powered by our diversity, we lead the way the world moves”
means that we want to ensure freedom of movement by providing safe, sustainable, affordable and convenient
mobility solutions.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
This is reflected in the Company’s approach toward connected and autonomous mobility: a gradual development to Stellantis is committed
ensure that reliability and safety requirements are met and to ensure affordability so that our customers and society at to ensure a sustainable
large can benefit from it. The Company is aware of these needs and shares its expertise with stakeholders, experts and future of mobility
regulators in the development of the appropriate standardization and regulatory framework. Local governments play a
significant role in their climate-neutral and smart cities mission and Stellantis collaborates with these local authorities to
expand their sustainability strategies. Stellantis is involved in dedicated conversations with local authorities to promote
the kind of regulations needed to support mobility programs.
The Company is working on a variety of Vehicle to Vehicle/Vehicle to Infrastructure (V2X) applications using both short
and long-range technologies as well as Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) applications using a wide array of
technologies in order to provide connectivity and safety to its customers. Therefore, Stellantis is supportive of in-vehicle
data access based on the Extended Vehicle (ExVe), as defined by various ISO Standards, and is in the process of developing
a fully industrialized Extended Vehicle Web Server allowing fair, reasonable, non-discriminatory safe and secure access to
vehicle data in full compliance with ISO standards.
In line with the Company’s strategic vision to be not only a vehicle manufacturer but also a mobility services provider,
Stellantis is implementing a complete automation roadmap from Level 1 and Levels 2 to 4 (driverless vehicles), based upon
clear use cases and customer requirements. We are enhancing the set of features already offered at Level 2 and launching
hands-off technology in the U.S. (usually called Level 2+). Level 3 is already under development and the Company sees,
beyond Level 3, application of Level 4 technology mainly for shared mobility services like autonomous shuttles, robotaxis
and automated goods delivery.
To support the growing level of autonomy and the high safety demands connected with these technologies, the Company
is investing in very advanced simulation and validation methods and creating synergies by pooling databases of relevant
safety scenarios and data collected from real world driving conditions, integrated into a state-of-the-art data platform.
Stellantis is committed to ensure a sustainable future of mobility also leveraging on new technology and digitalization to
reach carbon net zero emissions by 2038.
With these objectives in mind, Stellantis appointed in September, 2022, a new Chief Digital Information Officer (CDIO),
reporting to the Chief Human Resources and Transformation Officer and functionally to the Chief Technology Officer. In
this newly created role, the Chief Digital Information Officer will help lead Stellantis’ transformation into a sustainable
mobility tech company, driving its digital strategy and technologies. The CDIO will also be responsible for improving IT
project execution and organizational efficiency.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
4.1.2 FORWARD-LOOKING VISION AND TARGETS GRI 3-3
Commitment scoreboard
CSR ISSUE/
CHALLENGE
VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT RESULTS
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term 2022 2021
(End of Strategic Plan)
8 Development Lead innovation for % of Low Emission 2025: 40% 2030: 60% 2038: 100% 17.4% 12.5%
of new mobility Mobility-as-a-Service Vehicles (below 50g CO
2
solutions (including to support freedom per kilometer) infleeted in
autonomous of movement with the year for carsharing /
vehicles) affordable, safe and short- and medium-term
Owners: sustainable mobility rental / subscription /
solutions long-term rental (lease)
Brand Chief
Executive Officer,
Free2move
% Revenues from Low 2025: 20% 2030: 40% 2038: 80% 9.8% 5.5%
Chief Executive
Emission Vehicles (below
Officer, Leasys
50g CO per kilometer)
2
Chief Software within Mobility (incl. EV
Officer solutions + Data Service)
Chief Engineering and Rent (carsharing /
Officer short- and medium-term
rental / subscription /
long-term rental (lease))
4.1.3 IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
GRI 3-3
4.1.3.1 Risks
Our teams are focused on developing solutions to avoid or mitigate risks on the emerging mobility ecosystem:
■ Rapidly changing customer expectations
We are devoting research and innovation resources to address changing consumer expectations driven by growing
demand for safety, convenience, mobility-as-a-service, connectivity, sustainable mobility and quality time. Our ability
to develop and launch products with new technologies (e.g., electrification, autonomous driving and connected
vehicles) to meet regulatory requirements and customer expectations is constantly challenged by technical limitations
due to changes in public policies and strong validation efforts needed to ensure availability of systems at a certain
time frame.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
■ Deterioration or disappearance of vehicle brands in favor of new mobility brands
The automotive industry is in the process of a fundamental transformation and vehicle brands are facing challenges
posed by disruptive patterns in mobility choices. In some cities, vehicle ownership is restricted due to traffic congestion
and strains on local infrastructure. As automakers navigate this new mobility landscape and play a role in actively
shaping this change, it will require the evolution of a century old business model shifting from traditional ownership to
customer driven, flexible mobility solutions.
■ Climate change and environmental issues
Our society is facing increasing challenges resulting from environmental issues: scarcity of resources needed
to manufacture EVs, global warming, increased air pollution, etc. Transportation of goods and people is one of
the main contributors of the climate crises and accounts for 17 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions . Read more
Through Free2move and Leasys, Stellantis is developing a new way of mobility for people in order to offer them the https://www.statista.com/topics/
7476/transportation-emissions-
opportunity to change their way of consuming mobility. By allowing people to switch from property to usage, the worldwide/#topicOverview
Company is creating efficiencies for mobility consumption and thus, is contributing to lower the impact of people’s
mobility on the environment.
4.1.3.2 Opportunities
At the same time, this changing mobility landscape opens opportunities for Stellantis. Mobility transformation is
driven by three key trends: electrification of vehicles and alternative powertrains, Connected and Autonomous
Vehicles (CAVs) and Mobility-as-a-Service (MaaS). We embrace the challenges posed by this evolution seizing the
many opportunities that will invariably accompany change. Stellantis is committed to delivering on our electrification
plans, the acceleration of autonomous vehicle and connected technologies and the continued work in developing
and defining MaaS offerings through both our Free2move and Leasys services. Advanced autonomous and
connected technologies will continue to drive increasing levels of safety with technology that allows users to stay
continuously connected while on the move and continued deployment of Advanced Driving Assistance Systems
(ADAS) foreshadowing the autonomous vehicle.
■ Provide freedom of movement through global mobility brands and enhance the image of the company
As our mobility brands, Free2move and Leasys bring to Stellantis and its vehicle brands a positive image of flexibility
and agile thinking, in line with both current trends and future customers' needs. Free2move and Leasys are working to
define those services that not only meet the needs of individuals and businesses today but also to anticipate the use
cases that will drive tomorrow's mobility. These brands are responsive to B2B and B2C customers in search of change,
in a society that is reinventing itself. The continued evolution and adoption of the technologies that enable mobility
services and partnerships with other global mobility providers will enhance the perception of Stellantis and its core
automotive brands.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
Free2move is the only global mobility marketplace offering a complete and unique ecosystem for its private and Carsharing services in
professional customers around the world. Relying on data and technology, Free2move puts the customer experience at worldwide cities
the heart of the business to reinvent mobility. Free2move offers a range of services to satisfy the multiple travel needs 22
of its customers from one minute to several days or months with carsharing service, short-, medium- and long-term
rental or subscription as well as the reservation of ride hailing drivers, parking spacesvia the Free2move mobility app.
In 2022, Free2move has continued to develop its Mobility Hubs. This all-in-one solution bundles all rental durations
in one single app with the same fleet. In July 18, 2022, Free2move announced the completion of the acquisition of
SHARE NOW, the market leader and pioneer of free-floating carsharing in Europe allowing the company to become a
worldwide mobility leader and expanding its mobility hubs concept to 14 new cities in Europe . PRESS RELEASE
Free2move and SHARE NOW offer altogether carsharing services in 22 cities worldwide (Madrid, Paris, Portland, Free2move Becomes a World Leader in
Mobility With Acquisition of Share Now
Washington D.C., Denver, Columbus, Austin, Vienna, Budapest, Copenhagen, Milan, Rome, Turin, Amsterdam, Stuttgart,
https://media.stellantisnorthamerica.com/
Berlin, Cologne, Munich, Düsseldorf, Frankfurt, Hamburg and Münster).
newsrelease.do?id=23911&mid=1402
Leasys is a medium- and long-term rental operator that provides customers with new vehicles, including a comprehensive
selection of optional services that can be configured to fit the diverse nature and set of needs of its customer base. The
typical contract duration is from two up to four years.
Within this activity, sustainability means the development of products designed to charge for effective use of the vehicle
and therefore encourage responsible use (i.e., Pay-As-You-Go formulas like Leasys Miles, where a significant proportion
of the monthly rental is calculated based on actual distance driven). Sustainability in this area is also promoted through
a comprehensive range of services securing timely maintenance of the fleet (and therefore its efficient operation).
■ Leverage fleet electrification and infrastructure to meet consumer demands and regulatory emissions objectives
With electrification at the forefront of the global strategy of Stellantis, a significant increase in the availability of public
and private charging networks is required to enable wide-scale adoption and increase consumer confidence in EVs.
Stellantis through Free2move and Free2move eSolutions is working to provide end-to-end charging and 360° charging
solutions to simplify private, business and fleet customers charging experience. Through deployed mobility services
PRESS RELEASE
such as the Free2move Carsharing service, Stellantis will continue to increase the mix of EVs as a percentage of our
The plan announced by Stellantis at EV
active fleets.
Day continues: the first 700 sites have
As governments adopt policies favorable to electrification, Stellantis can rise to meet the needs and objectives of these been identified for Atlante, the largest fast
charging network under development in
programs. As an example, the adoption by the European Commission of “Fit for 55” package, to enable the European
Italy, France, Spain and Portugal, partnered
Union to reduce its net greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels and to achieve by NHOA and Free2Move eSolutions
climate neutrality in 2050, supports the on-going work of Stellantis and NHOA1 in the largest EV Fastcharging Network
https://www.media.stellantis.com/em-en/
in Southern Europe – operated by Atlante using the technology provided by Free2move eSolutions – enabled by e-mobility/press/the-plan-announced-by-
stellantis-at-ev-day-continues-the-first-700-sites-
renewables, energy storage and which is 100% grid integrated . have-been-identified-for-atlante-the-largest-fast-
charging-network-under-development-in-italy-
france-spain-and-portugal-partnered-by-nhoa-
1 NHOA (formerly Electro Power Systems - Engie EPS) is a global player in energy storage, e-mobility and electric vehicles fastcharging infrastructure. and-free2move-esolutions
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
■ Increase deployment of connected and autonomous vehicle technologies
Bringing together expertise in consumer innovations from the sustainable mobility and advanced electronics industries
aims at accelerating development timelines to offer innovative in-vehicle user experiences enabled by advanced
consumer electronics, Human Machine Interfaces and services that will exceed customer expectations.
This combination aims to position the Company at the forefront of global efforts to deliver a new frontier of in-cabin
information and entertainment capabilities, seamlessly connected inside and outside the vehicles in which they are
installed . For more information refer to 4.1.7.1.2
IMPACT MEASUREMENT OF THE ELECTRIFICATION STRATEGY
EV adoption can be accelerated by Stellantis mobility services to facilitate the use of EVs and to foster customer Charging stations in Europe
acceptance. Stellantis automotive subscription programs such as Free2move Car on Demand, enable customers to
405,000
experience an EV on a month-to-month basis. Stellantis carsharing programs such as Free2move Carsharing provide
additional opportunities for consumers to experience an EV on a short-duration basis as we continue to increase the
+62% versus 2021
mix of EVs in these fleets. In addition, the launch in France of the innovative “Electric As You Go” pay-per-use offer
introduces a new way to easily access BEVs, with a competitive pricing based on car usage. Free2move eSolutions
and Leasys are also working to facilitate the charging experience. In 2022, the new eSolutions Charging App enables
users to find a compatible and available charging station from a European network of approximately 405,000 charging
stations (versus 250,000 in 2021).
Infleeted LEVs
Sustainable mobility goes beyond simply the electrification of the fleet and seeks to align the diverse needs of
61,300
a community with an inclusive, affordable approach which maximizes the utilization of existing assets. Leasys and
Free2move have developed pay-per-use models where consumers and businesses pay for actual miles driven. 17.4% of total vehicles infleeted
Combined with asset sharing programs this has the double benefit of lowering mobility costs for our customers and
maximizing vehicle utilization.
In 2022, these initiatives have met with favorable market response and the number of infleeted LEVs was 61,304 (versus
49,800 in 2021) representing 17.4% of total vehicles infleeted in the year (versus 12.5% in 2021). The development of
LEVs through Stellantis’ mobility brands enhances the ability to respond to evolving customer expectations and supports
environmentally conscious consumers looking for alternatives to car ownership. Electrification also enables the emergence
of new services, such as the already available Citroën Ami. These services are further reinforced through our Free2move
eSolutions (F2MeS) joint venture with NHOA. This partnership is already in the process of developing a fast charging
network in Europe which will reinforce the synergy between electrification and mobility services . For more information refer to 2.5.3.2.3
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
4.1.4 GOVERNANCE AND DECISION BODIES TO LEAD ACTIONS GRI 3-3
Stellantis’ portfolio is uniquely suited to offer distinctive, sustainable mobility solutions to meet its customers’ evolving Stellantis’ portfolio is
uniquely suited to offer
needs, as they embrace electrification, connectivity, autonomous driving and shared ownership.
distinctive, sustainable
The Company’s mobility programs are led globally by the CEO of Free2move and Chairman of Leasys. Each of the
mobility solutions to
organizations is responsible for setting overall strategies to address the needs of our customers through hypothesis, testing, meet its customers’
implementation and adaptation. Stellantis Business Labs organization is designed to detect, test and transform opportunities evolving needs, as they
into marketable products and services for Stellantis which for instance led to the launch of Free2move Car On Demand. embrace electrification,
connectivity, autonomous
Stellantis has created a new Business Unit, Mobilisights, which is fully dedicated to developing data as a service business
driving and shared
and specialized B2B data products and services. Stellantis is forming this Business Unit to enable accelerated growth in a
ownership
fast-growing market through a specialized entity with commercial capabilities. The CEO of the new entity will work with
a designated leadership team and report to the Chief Software Officer.
Autonomous vehicle programs are jointly led by the technology EVPs (Chief Technology, Chief Engineering and Chief
Software Officers) all members of the Top Executive Team. Investment decisions are considered by the Strategy Council of
Stellantis. The Board of Directors is informed of the advances that the Company makes on autonomous technology. With
support of the global leadership, each region is responsible for adapting global strategies to align with the local context.
A dedicated Software division led by the Chief Software Officer, a member of the Top Executive Team, supports the shift
to become a sustainable mobility tech company and to expand the options customers have to add innovative features and
services, while transforming how they interact with vehicles.
The Chief Software Officer operates in a very close cooperation with the Chief Engineer Officer and the Chief Technical
Officer to plan, design and deliver technical solutions to customers.
4.1.5 POLICIES TO EXECUTE THE STRATEGY GRI 3-3
Stellantis is a leading global automaker and mobility provider dedicated to promoting a new era of sustainable mobility
and to protecting the freedom of movement of all - with distinctive, affordable and efficient transportation solutions
uniquely positioned to capture the exciting opportunities of a global industry undergoing rapid and profound change.
Guided by our Corporate Purpose - Powered by our diversity, we lead the way the world moves -, our strategy combines
technological development with the expansion of mobility services offered to our private and business customers to
address their evolving needs.
We embrace a culture of discontinuity to leverage our combined 200 years of automotive experience as a backdrop to
innovation which pushes the definition of the traditional automotive company towards a world of dynamic change. While
the technologies that underpin the rapid change in automobiles continue to mature, we must rethink the way in which
our customers and stakeholder access and interact with transportation systems.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
■ Mobility services support our climate neutrality ambition
Within the context of global climate change challenge, Free2move and Leasys believe that the mobility industry has a
responsibility to minimize its CO footprint and recognize their responsibilities, as leading mobility operators, to lead the
2
transition towards a more sustainable mobility system.
Free2move and Leasys recognize the necessary shift from Internal Combustion Engine vehicles towards alternative,
electric powertrains in support of the targets set by the Paris Agreement as well as the climate-related United Nations’
Sustainable Development Goals. They embrace these international goals and, with the aim to reduce substantially CO
2
emissions, are committed to contribute to consumers’ transition towards cleaner technologies and therefore, ultimately,
to the long-term sustainability of their activities.
Free2move operates a LEV-rich carsharing platform (partly electrified in Europe and ICE in the U.S.) providing a fully-digital
urban alternative. In the same way, LEVs are available through an automotive subscription programs providing an ideal
opportunity for consumers to test these emerging technologies. Free2move e-Solutions is also providing access to a
network of 405,000 charging stations in Europe in 2022 (versus 250,000 in 2021). These examples are a testimony of
Free2move e-Solutions' sense of responsibility and determination to contribute and accelerate the on-going transition For more information on these
to electric, more sustainable, forms of mobility . initiatives refer to 4.1.7
4.1.6 ORGANIZATION AND RESOURCES GRI 3-3
Stellantis offers a wide range of affordable mobility services in response to the new uses and different mobility needs of
businesses and individuals. These services are offered through Free2move, Leasys and their partners.
4.1.6.1 Free2move and Leasys: the brands dedicated to connected and mobility services
Stellantis delivers mobility offers through Free2move and Leasys, devoted to putting the customer experience at the heart
of business strategy in order to reinvent mobility and facilitate the transition to e-mobility.
Free2move is the mobility tech brand offering a complete and unique ecosystem for its private and professional customers
around the world and specifically in Europe and U.S. Relying on data and technology, the digitization of services allows
Free2move to adapt to large urban centers according to the needs of each user. By creating Mobility Hubs, Free2move
provides a new ecosystem that improves mobility conditions for B2C and B2B2C customers. Among the different travel
solutions of the Free2move application, users can choose the best mode of transportation, depending on their travel
need: carsharing, rental from 1 minute to several months, car with drivers (Ride hailing), parking space etc.
To meet business needs, Free2move has consolidated cutting-edge expertise around data through digital technology.
The services reduce the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) and carbon footprint of fleets (Connect Fleet, PHEV Connect,
E-Mobility Advisor, Multi brand services). Free2move has also developed a range of solutions to support customers in the
transition towards the use of EVs (i.e., eSolutions Charging App and future developments around fast charging and V2G).
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
Leasys’ offer has expanded in recent years to include a broad range of services addressing the specific needs of B2C and
B2B customers. Leasys’ product development has been awarded consecutively from 2019 to 2021 the “Product of the
Year” in the Automotive Services (Italy) category.
The sustainability of Leasys’ offer is represented by inclusive solutions making its mobility offer increasingly accessible
through products designed for discontinuous drivers (Leasys’ pay-per-use solutions such as Leasys Miles) as well as
drivers that need to travel without limitation in terms of kilometers (unlimited product dedicated to LEV).
Moreover Leasys offers Be Safe in the market, a long-term rental service, created in 2022 in partnership with an insurance
company in Italy. By subscribing to the insurance, Be Safe provides economic coverage of expenses up to six rental fees in
the event of job loss, permanent disability from injury and hospitalization for serious illness.
Mobility business accelerating
FREE2MOVE IS ACCELERATING ITS GROWTH
Free2move has developed its Mobility Hubs which offer flexible rental services, all available with the same fleet. PRESS RELEASE
Mobility Hubs are opened in the U.S, in Washington D.C., Portland, Denver and Austin and in Europe, in Madrid Stellantis Ventures Launches with €300
(Spain) and Paris (France). With the acquisition of SHARE NOW in 2022, 15 more cities in Europe will be integrated. Million Fund to Propel Innovation Uptake
Extended Mobility Hubs are also available through franchisees in 11 countries (France, Spain, Italy, Germany, Portugal, https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
Belgium, Austria, the United Kingdom, Slovenia, Greece and the U.S.) with the objectives to extend our services to press-releases/2022/march/stellantis-ventures-
launches-with-300-million-fund-to-propel-
200 cities in 2030 .
innovation-uptake
Stellantis Ventures will act as a strategic investor and help startups integrate new technologies within the Company
in compressed timeframes – allowing the adoption within months versus years. Investments will not only impact PRESS RELEASE
Stellantis' efforts around sustainability, competitiveness and in-vehicle technology but will also transform customer
Free2move is defining the future
experiences around vehicle marketing, sales and finance.
of mobility
Announced as part of Stellantis’ Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan, Stellantis Ventures is committed to supporting https://www.free2move.com/en-US/press/
aspiring entrepreneurs and fostering innovation driven by customer satisfaction, sustainability and a comprehensive press-release-2023-01-05#:~:text=By%20the%20
end%20of%202023,%2C%20rent%2C%20
portfolio of mobility technology . and%20subscription%20services.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
DEFINING THE FUTURE OF MOBILITY
Moving a customer is a great responsibility, and Free2move is positioned to empower customers with new technology
to embrace new mobility options and meet every evolving customer demand. Free2move will be 360° multimodal, the
user will be able to describes his need to the Free2move Smart Assistant, that will propose him several options based
on cost and time and depending on his needs and traffic context during the day.
Having secured their place as a leader in mobility, Free2move is now defining the future of the industry, combining
achievements in transportation with advanced technology for an optimized customer experience. People in urban
environments are no longer using a sole mode of transportation. They combine subways with carsharing, perhaps own a
small vehicle for everyday use and rent larger SUVs for road trips and weekend getaways. In line with these new market
demands, Free2move will continue to increase their offering and modes of transportation via their single app, for a customer
experience designed to take anyone anywhere, quickly and easily for the true freedom ease of travel provides.
4.1.6.2 Autonomous Driving
In this new era of mobility, Stellantis portfolio of brands is uniquely positioned to offer distinctive and sustainable solutions
to meet the evolving needs of customers, as they embrace electrification, connectivity and autonomous driving.
The goal of Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) and Autonomous Driving (AD) is to increase the safety of the
vehicle and to help the driver in the everyday tasks of driving.
Safety systems such as Autonomous Emergency Braking (AEB), Lane Keeping Assists (LKA) or Driver Monitoring Systems
(DMS) are able to provide significant benefit of accident reduction (from 10 to 30% depending on location and technical
definition) and are available on the majority of new Stellantis vehicles. Each new car generation provides new and
enhanced functions for safety improvements.
The other interest of ADAS for customers is to help the driver by providing assistance to reduce the fatigue, mental load and Automated Navigation
provide comfort during the driving journey or parking situation. For example, Adaptative Cruise Control and Lane Centering / system capable of
Positioning assistance systems provide automatic steering, braking and acceleration of the vehicle, while Automated Parking autonomously performing
Assist detects parking lot and perform the full parking maneuver. Another example is an Automated Navigation system address-to-address
capable of autonomously performing address-to-address driving, including handling highway lane changes, interchanges, driving, including handling
and split/merge scenarios. Automated driving capabilities are also beginning to extend into semi-urban and urban settings, highway lane changes,
with various degrees of intersections handling. At this stage, in mass consumer vehicles, the driver still has to monitor the interchanges, and split/
merge scenarios
environment of the vehicle but can drive feet off and on certain conditions hands off the steering wheel. Stellantis already
provides a complete suite of ADAS for most of its vehicles, on all segments and locations.
Stellantis has already implemented Feet off in its vehicles worldwide, hands off at very low speed also (Full Automated
Park Assist) and plan to implement hands off L2+ in the near future.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
Autonomous Driving is the next step of ADAS: driver has the possibility to do secondary tasks (reading e-mail, watching Autonomous Driving is
videos etc), to significantly improve the user’s experience during the travel with a delegation of the complete driving task the next step of ADAS
to the autonomous system. Ultimately, autonomous driving technology will improve people’s mobility and goods delivery
by providing new services based on autonomous taxi, shuttles and commercial vehicles.
Autonomous vehicle and ADAS technology demonstrates the ability of vehicle systems to take over an increasing number
of tasks which are currently performed by the driver. SAE International (SAE) developed a classification system that
defines the degree of driving automation a vehicle and its equipment may offer. The levels span from zero to five, ranging
from vehicles without this technology to entirely self-driving vehicles.
SAE LEVELS OF DRIVING AUTOMATION
Human Responsibility Machine
LEVEL 0 LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 3 LEVEL 4 LEVEL 5
You are driving You are not driving
Whenever these driver support features are engaged - even if your feet When these automated driving features are engaged - even if you are
What does are off the pedals and you are not steering seated in “the driver’s seat”
the human in
the driver’s seat
You must constantly supervise these support features: When the feature request These automated driving features will not require
have to do?
you must steer, brake or accelerate as needed to maintain safety you to take over driving
You must drive
These are driver support features These are automated driving features
These features are These features These features provide
What do these limited to providing provide steering OR steering AND brake/ These features can drive the vehicle under limited This feature can
features do? warnings and brake/acceleration acceleration support to conditions and will not operate unless drive the vehicle
all required conditions are met under all conditions
momentary assistance support to the driver the driver
Automatic Lane centering Lane centering Traffic jam Local driverless Same as level 4,
emergency braking or and chauffeur taxi but feature can
E Fex aa tm up rele s B Lali nn ed dsp epo at rw tua rr en ings co A nd tra op ltive cruise co A nd tra op lt aiv te t hcr eu sis ae m e w P he ed ea l mls/ as yte oe rr i mng ay d inr i av le l ce ov ne dry itw ioh ne sre
warning time not be installed
© 2021 SAE International
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
A new Level 2+ is also emerging on the market as an intermediate system before full automation (Level 3 and above). Our ongoing partnerships
There is no formal definition of Level 2+, such that different approaches are currently being taken by different automakers. include major technology
In some cases, Level 2+ refers to enhancements of driving capabilities/maneuvers and extensions of operational design players in autonomous
domains compared to Level 2, but with the driver still fully responsible and required to maintain eyes on the road and driving
hands on the wheel and feet "off" with braking and acceleration controlled by the system. In other approaches, the
Level 2+ system allows the driver to take the hands off of the steering wheel to improve the driving comfort for a more
specific set of driving maneuvers and operating conditions, such as during long travels on highways that mostly require
Automated Cruise Control (ACC) and lane centering functionality for extended periods of time. In the near term, Stellantis
plans to launch such a Level 2+ system in the U.S. (it should be noted that ADAS European and Chinese regulations do not
allow Level 2+ hands off driving at the current time).
To offer those new functions and services that improve the mobility experience and provide greater access to affordable
solutions, the Company organization is set up to pursue a multi-partner strategy for developing advanced driver assistance
and autonomous driving technologies, working with leaders in their respective industries.
Considering the challenges and opportunities presented by the advances in autonomous driving and connectivity, we are
devoting resources to research and develop an approach to address changing consumer expectations driven by growing
demand for safety, convenience, connectivity and quality time.
Our ongoing partnerships include major technology players in autonomous driving.
In 2022, we further strengthened our ongoing partnership in the area of Automated Driving:
■ the co-development project with BMW of a platform which will allow Stellantis to support features from Level 2, Level
2+ and Level 3 across a wide range of vehicles and geographies.
■ the Waymo cooperation on Level 4 autonomy has been extended to include light commercial vehicles specific use cases,
which could bring several new business opportunities to the market.
In addition, Stellantis will include the upgrade over-the-air (OTA) of ADAS and Autonomous Driving functions for its
future vehicles, leveraging the capabilities provided by new centralized ADAS hardware and architecture.
The non-binding memorandum of understanding signed with Foxconn in 2021, aims at developing four families of chips
that will cover over 80% of the Company’s micro-controllers needs, helping to greatly simplify the supply chain. Adoption
and installation of products into Stellantis vehicles is targeted by 2024.
Stellantis also has particular focus on validation and safety, which are key for being able to put highly automated driving
features on the market. Many important research institutes are involved with Stellantis in this field (i.e., SystemX and
VEDECOM in France). Stellantis also leverages several major cooperative funded projects such as L3Pilot (project finished
in 2021 on level 3 driving pre-deployment project ), HiDrive (in use monitoring of driver for Level 3), successors of PEGASUS For more information refer to
in Germany (Set Level 4 to 5, etc.) and SAM (Scenario database for ADAS and Autonomous driving Level 3) in France. the box under 4.1.7.3
Several projects are also in place for the development of the technologies on autonomous driving and connectivity such
as Imagine (V2X) in Germany and C-ROADS (V2X), Mise VeDi 2025 and Mise Scala AD in Europe.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
In addition, the Joint Research Laboratory (Joint LAB), with Valeo and Safran on Artificial Intelligence for Driving Automation
(Level 2/Level 3) is noteworthy among our current research partnerships.
PRESS RELEASE
Stellantis N.V. and Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. announced a multi-year technology collaboration to utilize the latest Snapdragon®
Stellantis and Qualcomm Collaborate
Digital Chassis advancements to deliver intelligent, customizable and immersive in-vehicle experiences to millions of vehicles across
to Power New Vehicle Platforms with
Stellantis’ 14 iconic automotive brands beginning in 2024. Leveraging the Snapdragon® Cockpit Platforms and 5G capabilities for
Snapdragon Digital Chassis Solutions:
telematics systems, Stellantis will have the capability to meet customers’ evolving expectations for personalized and cutting-edge
https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
experiences that are continually upgradeable. This agreement will facilitate Stellantis’ plan to merge all software domains into High
press-releases/2022/april/stellantis-and-
Performance Computers, leveraging the high-performance, low-power Snapdragon Automotive Platforms across all major vehicle qualcomm-collaborate-to-power-new-vehicle-
domains as well as contribute to securing Stellantis’ supply chain on strategic components . platforms-with-snapdragon-digital-chassis-
solutions
New Tech Platforms Coming in 2024
The heart of the transformation to customer-centric services is the new electrical/electronic (E/E) and software architecture.
Three new tech platforms are expected to be deployed in 2024, at scale, across the four vehicle platforms of Stellantis over
the following two years:
■ STLA Brain planned to be fully OTA capable, with 30 modules addressed, versus 10 today, making it highly flexible. It is
a service-oriented architecture that aims to be fully integrated with the cloud that connects electronic control units within
the vehicle with the vehicle’s central high performing computer (HPC) via a high-speed data bus. It is designed to breaks
today’s bond between hardware and software generations, enabling software developers to create and update features
and services quickly without waiting for a new hardware launch. These OTA updates should allow us to dramatically
reduce costs for both the customers and Stellantis, simplify maintenance for the user and sustain vehicle residual values.
■ STLA SmartCockpit, to be built on top of STLA Brain, is intended to seamlessly integrate with the digital lives of vehicle
occupants to create a customizable third living space. STLA SmartCockpit is built in collaboration with Amazon’s
automotive offering – Amazon Digital Cabin which aims at bringing scalable and modular software platform for cockpit
applications. The development of SmartCockpit is done leveraging the Mobile Drive joint venture between Stellantis
and Foxconn. STLA SmartCockpit is expected to be cloud first and designed to deliver always refreshed content and
services leveraging 5G connectivity. STLA SmartCockpit will deliver AI based experiences in the field of Navigation, Voice
Assistance, e-Com market place and payment services.
PRESS RELEASE
■ STLA AutoDrive is being developed in partnership with BMW, to offer Level 2, Level 2+ and Level 3 autonomous driving
Stellantis Awards $22,000 As College
capabilities and with continuous upgrades through OTA updates. Teams Tackle First Hackathon
College teams competed in the first Stellantis Hackathon in Detroit at the end of April 2022; winning team awarded https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
press-releases/2022/april/stellantis-awards-
$15,000. Teams used cloud based Stellantis software development kit (SDK), vehicle data to create apps that “gamify” 22000-as-college-teams-tackle-first-
driving to encourage safety, fuel efficiency. hackathon?utm_source=EN-Press%20
Releases&utm_medium=email&utm_
Software-defined vehicles play a key role in Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan with 34 million monetizable connected cars campaign=A187_Stellantis%20Awards%20
%2422%2C000%20As%20College%20Teams%20
on the road by 2030 . Tackle%20First%20Hackathon_27042022
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
IMPACT MEASUREMENT OF SOFTWARE STRATEGY
To support the development of mobility services, including via autonomous driving, Stellantis endeavors to
deploy its next-generation tech platforms, building on existing connected vehicle capabilities to generate approximately
€20 billion in incremental annual revenues by 2030.
This transformation will move Stellantis’ vehicles from today’s dedicated electronic architectures to an open software-
defined platform that seamlessly integrates with customers’ digital lives.
4.1.7 MAIN INITIATIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND RESULTS
STELLANTIS HARDWARE, SOFTWARE AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE PLATFORM SOLUTIONS
STLA AutoDrive STLA SmartCockpit
STLA Brain
4.1.7.1 Overall Mobility Solutions and Services
Free2move and Leasys offer a variety of mobility services to B2C and B2B customers in some European countries and
for Free2move in the U.S. too. Both brands offer rentals; Free2move services include also carsharing, subscription and
fleet solutions. In 2022, the following main initiatives contributed to the Stellantis results in offering products tailored to
stimulate customers’ approach to the new electric technologies as well as to facilitate that experience while guaranteeing
maximum flexibility to reassess their needs at any time.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
OVERVIEW OF MOBILITY SOLUTIONS AND SERVICES OFFERED BY STELLANTIS
CUSTOMIZED AND AFFORDABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS MAKE LIFE EASIER
Urban mobility / Urban
Rental / Subscriptions
carsharing / Ride hailing
…from Free
a minute Floating Urban carsharing, 100% digital
Carsharing
and partly electrified in Europe
and ICE in the U.S.
Ride-hailing driver reservations
…for
a few Carsharing
days Short-term rental service Peer to Peer
Platform where visibility of
vehicle is restricted to a group of
“friends” defined by the driver
Corporate carsharing
I need
a car
...for
Monthly car subscription several
months
Pay-per-use long term
rental, monthly fee
varying with mileage
…unlimited
Long-term rental This all-in-one solution bundles
product with unlimited all rental durations in one single
mileage for LEV vehicles app with the same fleet
sitnalletS
yb
depoleveD
secivreS
BUSINESS SOLUTIONS
Mobility services / Traffic management /
Fleet solutions
Assistance and maintenace Charging options
500,000 parking lots Advice solution for corporate transition to
in 65 countries electric mobility
Long term rental services for corporate
405,000 terminals and private customers
in Europe
Fleet handling for medium-sized and large
business
Fleet handling and maintenance service
for PHEV
Telemaintenance
Maintenance warning service
Medium-sized and large business car fleet
sharing
Digital application for monitoring
of fleet performance and B2B platform monitoring of vehicle’s
preventive maintenance performance, preventive maintenance,
broad range of customer services
Drivers’ APP to access all Leasys
B2B and B2C platform monitoring of vehicle’s
products and services, access
performance, preventive maintenance, broad
e-charging infrastructure and
range of customer services
interaction with Leasys
Bespoke B2B platform enabling large
corporate’s internal customers to configure
Uconnect cloud-based platform
their vehicle.
to power connectivity, offering a
full array of services and deliver an
enhanced user experience
spihsrentraP
TomTom Traffic Connected Smarter Cities TomTom Telematics
Navigation
Masternaut (Fleet Management)
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
4.1.7.1.1 CUSTOMIZED AND AFFORDABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS F2M MOBILITY HUB
At Free2move, we have designed an innovative mobility service model that adapts to our customers. This solution is
available in the U.S. and in Europe. It allows customers to rent a car available around them in the street through our
application, for a few minutes, hours, days or even months with commitment-free subscription. If the customer needs the
car for a longer time, the rental contract adapts automatically to the customer’s usage.
Free2move website
Free2move offers additional services to support the consumers’ journey such as the reservation of parking spaces, car https://www.free2move.com/
with drivers (Ride hailing), access to EV charging stations in Europe with eSolutions etc., all accessible either on the
website or via the Free2move mobile app in 170 countries:
■ Carsharing: Free2move and SHARE NOW offer altogether carsharing services in 22 cities worldwide (Madrid, Paris,
Portland, Washington D.C., Denver, Columbus, Austin, Vienna, Budapest, Copenhagen, Milan, Rome, Turin, Amsterdam,
Stuttgart, Berlin, Cologne, Munich, Düsseldorf, Frankfurt, Hamburg and Münster) where it is possible to locate more
than 11,500 cars in an instant.
■ Rent: In more than 170 countries, relying on its network of franchisees, dealers and partners, Free2move provides access
to more than 450,000 vehicles on a daily rental basis.
■ Car On Demand: For even more flexibility, Free2move offers its customers a subscription service that allows them
to rent vehicles of multiple brands on a monthly basis and without any time commitment. In 2022, this service was
available in France, Spain, Belgium, Portugal, UK, Italy and Germany and will be available in early 2023 in Slovenia and
Greece in Europe and in Washington D.C., Portland, Denver and Austin in the U.S. through the Mobility Hubs and
independently in Los Angeles.
■ Leasys Miles: Pay-per-use long term rental where monthly fee is made of a fixed element plus a variable element based
on the number of kilometers actually driven. A product designed for the low-mileage consumer that can enjoy lower
cost together with the full services offered by a professional mobility operator.
■ Leasys Unlimited: Designed for the electric consumer of today and tomorrow, Unlimited is a long-term rental product
fully serviced and including unlimited mileage. Leasys Unlimited guarantees peace of mind for the intensive use of
electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles.
■ Leasys I-Link: In 2020 I-link was born, a peer-to-peer carsharing platform, designed to be able to share the rented car
with a community (of friends, relatives or colleagues) up to a maximum of 10 people. Only the holder of the car is a
Leasys customer, and the platform I-link allows the customer to share the car with its community (private individuals).
■ Leasys I-Share: Companies can optimize the logistics management of shared cars thanks to the I-Share corporate
carsharing platform which facilitates the use and sharing of company vehicles. Through the use of keyless technology,
the monitoring platform for fleet managers and the app for the use of the service by the drivers, administrative
management becomes easier and the fleet is always on the move and under control.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
4.1.7.1.2 MAKE LIFE EASIER
■ F2M eSolutions Charging App: Trip optimization. This app makes it possible for users to locate more than 405,000
charging stations in Europe and to optimize their journeys according to their charging needs.
■ Leasys I-Care: It is the innovative Leasys service system designed to improve driver safety, vehicle efficiency and
logistical optimization of the fleet. Through the installation of remote diagnosis and infomobility devices on vehicles,
Leasys I-Care allows customers to remotely monitor the status of the vehicle, with the aim of becoming more easily
aware of the theft, breakdowns or malfunctions.
■ Leasys UMOVE App: Trip optimization -Drivers’ app to access all Leasys products and services, locate e-charging
infrastructure, perform a number of customer services independently and from a smartphone.
4.1.7.1.3 BUSINESS SOLUTIONS
■ LEASYS Spa: Leasys, Headquartered in Italy, offers innovative, smart and sustainable mobility solutions. To large
companies, small and medium enterprises and private individuals Leasys provides integrated mobility solutions that
make fleet management more efficient and safer.
Leasys develops diversified rental solutions customized to the composition of fleets of any size. Companies are offered
vehicles of the best brands, with the added value of consulting, management and technological capabilities rooted in
experience and strategy, thanks also to dedicated digital platforms designed to meet their needs.
With 20 years of experience and with a fleet of over 450,000 vehicles, Leasys is Italy’s leader in long-term rental and
one of the main mobility players in Europe.
■ F2M Lease: Free2move Lease is a multi-brand full-service leasing for all professionals for a hassle-free mobility. It
provides tailor-made financing, insurance and maintenance offers, and a set of innovative and connected services for
professionals such as Connect fleet, Fleet sharing, Jockey, as well as a full range of services to help customers to switch
to electric (eSolutions Charging App, mobility pass, charging stations, etc.). Free2move Lease in figures: in 2022, 140,800
customers (versus 136,000 in 2021), 464,600 leased vehicles (versus 444,000 in 2021).
■ F2M e-Mobility Advisor: Personalized advice solution born from the need expressed by companies to be supported
in their transition to electric mobility. Free2move helps them in their energy transition thanks to an evaluation of the
electro-compatibility of their vehicle fleet based on the actual uses of their employees.
■ F2M PHEV Connect: Trip optimization -Free2move has developed a PHEV fleet cost monitoring software to optimize
the use of plug-in hybrid vehicles.
■ Connect Fleet: A fleet management platform enabling B2B customers to optimize the use of their vehicles by gaining
access to consumption reports, mechanical alerts, eco-driving reports and vehicle geolocation in the event of theft in
real time.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
■ Mobilisights: Stellantis has created a new data entity, Mobilisights, which is fully dedicated to developing data as
a service business and specialized B2B data products and services. Free2move will continue its growth in the fleet
management business, supported with strong and reliable data and application programming interfaces (APIs) coming
from Mobilisights.
■ Customer Space F2M Lease: B2B dedicated web platform for the monitoring of the vehicle’s performance and
maintenance status. Thanks to the Customer Space the BtoB customers have also access to a wide range of customer
services, make inquiries and access contractual and vehicle documentation. It enables B2B Customers and Fleet
Managers to monitor the performance of the corporate fleet and optimize its performance.
■ My Leasys: B2B and B2C platform for the monitoring of each vehicle’s performance and maintenance status. Through
MyLeasys customers are also able to initiate a broad range of customer services, make inquiries and access contractual
and vehicle documentation from the comfort of their home or office. My Leasys enables B2B Customers and Fleet
Managers to monitor the performance of the corporate fleet and maximize its performance.
■ Leasys I-Quote: Bespoke B2B platform enabling large corporate’s internal customers to configure their vehicle in
compliance with each company’s car policies. An asset for the efficient operation of corporate fleets.
4.1.7.1.4. Main results
■ Business results: The financial growth of the two organizations was achieved due to high operational performance:
● Free2move: a worldwide mobility leader with subscription up to 275% versus 2020 and a new mobility business
profitable, with revenues up 38% year-over-year driven by U.S. and Europe expansion;
● Leasys: a subsidiary of FCA Bank, the equally held joint venture between Stellantis and Crédit Agricole, in July 2021,
debuted Green Bond issuance for €500 million to finance its electrification strategy and, in particular, the acquisition
of LEV vehicles with emissions lower than 50g CO/km.
2
In the Allocation and Impact Report, in order to give disclosure to the investors in Green Bond, it is reported the Leasys
Portfolio Overview, as of December 31, 2021, of the Green Bond proceed allocation:
● Number of Low Emission Vehicles in the fleet (<50g CO 2/km): 13,362, of which 55% are Battery Electric vehicles (BEV)
and 45% are plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEV), corresponding to an Acquisition Value of € 344 million;
● the fleet spans nine countries;
● https://corporate.leasys.com/corporate/investor-relations/greenbond/2022/Es_BilancioGreen_SLIDE%20RGB.pdf . Read more
https://corporate.leasys.com/corporate/
■ Leasys ESG policy: during the year, Leasys adopted a comprehensive CSR approach. As significant employer across investor-relations/greenbond/2022/Es_
Europe, Leasys also feels the responsibility to contribute to the societal wellbeing of staff and that of the communities BilancioGreen_SLIDE%20RGB.pdf
it serves. To act on this, Leasys adopted a variety of measures to promote responsible business conduct, a diverse and
inclusive workplace and clear, transparent communication to consumers and the investor community.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
IMPACT MEASUREMENT OF THE ELECTRIFICATION STRATEGY
Free2move eSolutions is the joint venture between Stellantis and NHOA Group created in 2021, with the goal to
become a leader in the design, development, manufacturing and distribution of electric mobility products. In a spirit of
innovation and as a pioneer, the joint venture will guide the transition to new forms of electric mobility, to contribute to
the reduction of CO emissions.
2
Free2move Lease supports its customers in reducing their carbon footprint with the French greentech WeNow.
Free2move Lease and the French greentech WeNow, a specialist in climate innovation and eco-mobility, are launching
an exclusive service offer allowing their customers to assess their carbon footprint and offset the CO emissions of their
2
fleet. They can have their environmental approach certified by the UN.
For its part Leasys, within the context of climate change and the challenges it represents globally, believes that the
mobility industry in which it operates has a responsibility to minimize its CO footprint. Therefore, Leasys embraces
2
these international goals and, with the aim to reduce substantially carbon dioxide (CO ) emissions and it is committed
2
to stimulate an acceleration of its customers’ transition towards cleaner technologies and ultimately, to contribute to
the long-term sustainability of its activities.
To create awareness on the reduced environmental impacts of carsharing solutions, Free2move organizes programs to
sensitize customers about the importance of this new mode of transportation and cooperate with the local authorities to
raise consciousness of citizens about the importance of carsharing.
Free2move is part of the Association des Acteurs de L'Autopartage (AAA) in France and the Asociación de Vehículos
Compartidos en España (AVCE) which aims to promote and develop carsharing in France and Spain. For instance, in
November 2021, the AAA has published the first guide for local authorities to accelerate the development of carsharing
in all areas.
Moreover, for each time Free2move opened its services in a new city, it seized the opportunity to communicate widely
about it on its social medias, through digital out of home and online videos advertising or with journalists invitations or
press releases.
Free2move is also working with local authorities of cities it collaborates with, to support the implementation of carsharing
services and highlights the numerous advantages that it brings to the people and their mobility needs . PRESS RELEASE
The company is also taking part in the European Mobility Week which is an important way to share our insights about Free2Move Unstoppable,
Arrives in Columbus
how carsharing can help reduce the environmental impacts of cars.
https://media.stellantisnorthamerica.com/
newsrelease.do?id=23560&mid=1402
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
4.1.7.2 Special Mobility Needs
Stellantis supports individuals with special mobility needs. For an individual with a disability, accessible mobility can offer an
increased level of independence. At Stellantis, the Autonomy and DriveAbility program are designed to help customers with
permanent disabilities by providing financial assistance toward the purchase of appropriate customizable adaptive equipment.
In 2022, there were 3,150 customized vehicles sold through the Autonomy program to customers in Italy (versus 4,241 in
2021). Revenues from the sale of these vehicles in Italy totaled €52 million in 2022 (versus around €83 million in 2021).
In addition, about 1,200 people benefited during the year from the services offered through the Autonomy program’s 16
Mobility Centers in Italy (versus about 1,500 in 2021). These Centers are managed in collaboration with local associations,
rehabilitation centers, health authorities and the department of motor vehicles. The services offered include assistance with
a range of administrative, legal and technical issues, fitness-to-drive screening assessments, and information on test drives.
The U.S.-based program, DriveAbility, is a financial assistance program to help customers with permanent disabilities
enter, exit and operate a new vehicle. The program provides financial assistance up to €893 of the expense for installing
adaptive driver or passenger equipment. DriveAbility supplies vehicles to a network of 20 vehicle modifiers, who operate
more than 600 sales and service outlets across the U.S. Since 2010, the DriveAbility program has provided more than
48,000 customer assistance grants (of which 2,207 mobility customer grants in 2022 alone). Along with financial assistance
for adaptive equipment, the program has provided learning sessions where rehabilitation specialists present the latest in
advanced safety and convenience technology features available on our vehicles to benefit special mobility needs.
Stellantis is announcing the European expansion of Autonomy, the program to provide modified cars with driving and
transportation mechanisms for wheelchair users, suitable for various motor disabilities. The program also provides
experienced assistance services and special offers to purchase a new car. Created in Italy by Fiat brand, the Autonomy
program is due to be extended to all brands in the European markets where the Group maintains a presence . PRESS RELEASE
Stellantis renews and extends Autonomy
4.1.7.3 Autonomous vehicle main implementations
program to all European brands
As Stellantis focuses on its automated vehicle strategy, we have been able to achieve progress in 2022 such as: https://www.media.stellantis.com/em-en/
corporate-communications/press/stellantis-
renews-and-extends-autonomy-program-to-all-
■ Level 2 technology complementary launches in China.
european-brands
■ Developing of Level 2+ technology in vehicles for the U.S. market with validation phases in 2022.
■ Enhancement of level 2 proposals with new use cases (i.e., semi-autonomous lane change, etc.).
■ Active safety features continuously enhanced with for example the 4th generation of Lane Departure Warning and
Keeping Assist to cover extensive uses cases to improve the safety benefit.
■ Further deployment of advanced features in ADAS across Stellantis portfolio such as night vision, driver monitoring
system, automated park assist and rear and lateral collision avoidance.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
STELLANTIS SHARES RESULTS OF L3PILOT AUTOMATED DRIVING PROJECT
Stellantis presented its contributions to the L3Pilot automated driving project at the L3Pilot final event in Hamburg,
Germany, in conjunction with ITS World Congress, in October 2021. The event included driving demonstrations on
nearby motorways with several vehicles with Level 3 technologies which have been presented.
The piloting phase covered a wide range of driving situations, including parking, overtaking on highways, driving
through urban intersections and in close distance scenarios. This tested Level 3 automated driving functions such as:
• Motorway Chauffeur: High-speed driving and automated lane change
• Traffic Jam Chauffeur: Low-speed driving in congested roads
• Remote Parking: In parallel and cross-parking scenarios PRESS RELEASE
• Home Zone: Path memory for repetitive maneuvers to park in and out in parking areas. Stellantis Shares Results of L3Pilot
Automated Driving Project
A fleet of sixteen Stellantis prototypes was deployed in different scenarios and driving situations and exposed to
variable conditions across several European countries to collect data, detect scenarios and evaluate all aspects of the https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
press-releases/2021/october/stellantis-shares-
road tests, to answer key questions bringing these systems to the market . results-of-l3pilot-automated-driving-project
On 22 December 2022, Stellantis NV finilazed its project of acquisition of aiMotive, a leading developer of advanced
artificial intelligence and autonomous driving software Start-up. This acquisition will accelerate our journey to become a
sustainable mobility tech company and deliver our Dare Forward 2030 goals. It will enhance Stellantis’ artificial intelligence
and autonomous driving core technology, expand our global talent pool, and foster the mid-term development of Stellantis
all-new STLA AutoDrive platform . PRESS RELEASE
Stellantis Completes Acquisition of aiMotive
to Accelerate Autonomous Driving Journey
AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES RESULTS
https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
press-releases/2022/december/stellantis-
completes-acquisition-of-aimotive-to-accelerate-
autonomous-driving-journey
Number of autonomous vehicles Distance Scenario database
developed by the Company or (km driven) in >100,000
through partnerships and tested
autonomous mode
internally or by other partners of the
Company, for on the road testing (when available) detailed scenarios
extracted from all the
>30 >1 M km driving databases
Mobile Drive Joint Venture
Mobile Drive, the co-owned Stellantis and Foxconn joint venture announced in 2021, is focused on infotainment, telematics and
cloud service platform development with software innovations expected to include artificial intelligence-based applications,
5G communication, upgraded over-the-air (OTA) services, e-commerce opportunities and SmartCockpit integrations.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
It will combine Stellantis’ global vehicle design and engineering expertise with Foxconn’s global development in the rapidly
changing software and hardware realms of smartphones and consumer electronics. The combination will position Mobile
Drive at the forefront of global efforts to offer disruptive SmartCockpit solution that will seamlessly integrate the automobile
into the driver’s mobile-centric lifestyle providing the digital experience of the future at the speed our customers demand.
Mobile Drive teams have been actively engaged in the development of SmartCockpit and the next generation Mobile
App - STLA Space App that will be rolled out globally. In addition Mobile Drive is also engaged in accelerating feature
development for the existing car park.
Other innovative partnerships include the one with Archer to support them in the development of vertical take-off
vehicles. Archer is benefiting from access to Stellantis low-cost supply chain, advanced composite material capabilities,
and engineering and design experience.
4.2 Vehicle and service quality - Customer satisfaction
4.2.1 CONTEXT AND STELLANTIS POSITION GRI 3-3
CSR issue/challenge #9: Vehicle and service quality - Customer satisfaction 9 Vehicle and service quality - customer
satisfaction
Customer satisfaction hinges on product and service quality. We know that exceptional quality is the forerunner to
customer loyalty and economic growth. The key factors for customer loyalty are customer satisfaction, positive customer
experiences and the overall value of the goods or services a customer perceives. Strong relationships with customers
lead to increased customer loyalty. At Stellantis, we are focused on increasing the reliability of our products, our ability to
understand customer mobility needs, that vary across markets, vehicle service quality, customer advocacy and improving
customer relationship processes and communication channels.
We work to adhere to regulatory requirements and incorporate best practices to provide comprehensive information
to customers, such as information related to warranties, repair and replace services, and along with applying certified
international quality standards (e.g., IATF 16949 specific to the automotive industry) in our processes.
Company’s public position
In the era of multi-channel and customer centric communication, the relationship has switched from a transactional
approach to a personal approach, in which the customer is the central focus, clearly demonstrated in our corporate values
which include “We are Customer Centric”. The Company is committed to a proactive approach, listening closely to its
customers to improve their experience throughout an optimized and individualized customer journey.
A broad range of services are available, ensuring a customer centric response. This is true for services during the vehicle
sale reception, advice, getting to know the vehicle, financing, and insurance options by the dedicated companies in
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
Stellantis’ approach to innovation is about meeting the new expectations of its customers. While differing from one country
to the next, those new expectations nevertheless follow a few key trends, namely the shift from ownership to experience,
calls for progress for everyone, and the very highest security and safety standards. We participate in discussions and
quality councils with industry associations, e.g. AIAG, where teams of volunteers from OEMs and suppliers collaborate on
the way to solve issues that are common to the automotive industry. For economic, environmental and social reasons, the
automotive world is transitioning from the era of the vehicle to that of mobility. Stellantis’ innovation strategy for 2030 is
consistent with that paradigm shift and aims to respond to the changing needs of customers.
4.2.2 FORWARD-LOOKING VISION AND TARGETS GRI 3-3
Commitment scoreboard
CSR ISSUE/ VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT RESULTS
CHALLENGE
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term 2022 2021
(End of Strategic Plan)
9 Vehicle and service Be Number 1 in Customer satisfaction: By 2024: 160 2030: 280 2040: All Stellantis 104 100
quality - Customer syndicated surveys in presence rate of Stellantis brands in the first
satisfaction customer satisfaction brands in the first quartile quartile
Owner: Chief with excellent quality of the product and service
Customer Experience vehicles, services and syndicated surveys, in the
Officer mobility, providing a main markets. Year for
seamless customer base 100 is 2021, target is
journey, worldwide2 +20% each year3
3 months in service 2022: -40% 2030: -75% 2040: -80% -28.8% 100
repairs rate: percentage 2024: -55%
of reduction vs reference
year 20214
Customer satisfaction 2025: 2030: 2040: Sales: 102 100
as measured Sales: 103 Sales: 109 Sales: 114 Aftersales: 101
by Net Promoter Scores
Aftersales: 109 Aftersales: 117 Aftersales: 121
(NPS) (New Vehicle sales
+ After-Sales). Year for
base 100: 20215
2 Refer to section 4.2.5 for more information about Number 1 For more information about
3 Reference scope: -Product: Things gone wrong, overall satisfaction -Service: sales, after-sales -13 markets: France, UK, Germany, Spain, Italy, Turkey, Number 1 refer to 4.2.5
Brazil, Argentina, China, Japan, India, South Korea, U.S. -The KPI is the average value of the four indicators (product and service) on the 13 markets
4 This KPI is calculated using the warranty database. As results are confidential, they are given using a base 100 2021
5 This KPI is based on syndicated surveys results. Base 100 2021 means that 2021 results are used as a reference and converted to 100. Future results
will be compared to 2021 and presented as percentage of evolution
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
4.2.3 IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES GRI 3-3
4.2.3.1 Risks
Quality has an important impact on customer satisfaction and loyalty. The potential loss of customers and negative brand
image are risks that the organization pays close attention to via customer feedback methods.
The process of risks identification involves our customers, through surveys. As an illustration of these risks, the results of
one of our surveys (refer to items 1 and 2) show that the more problems a vehicle has the less likely it is that a customer
will remain loyal to the brand.
1. Survey results regarding the relationship between incidents and product quality satisfaction score
Customers are asked to provide their experience during the first 90 days of vehicle ownership.
We can see that a customer who has not had a vehicle problem within the first 90 days gives a 9.00 average satisfaction
score while a customer who has had three problems gives a 7.77 average satisfaction score.
Impact of number of problem on Overall satisfaction (OSAT) score
7
6
5
0 1 2 3 4 5 > 6
Scope of the survey: Results May 2021
All brands sold in the five major markets in Europe: France, Germany, Italy, Spain, United Kingdom
Deliveries between September 2019 and August 2020
Questionnaire sent to customers after three months of ownership
rac
weN
-
noitcafsitas
larevO
Relationship between
incidents and product
quality satisfaction score
All Brands of the Survey
10
9
8
Number of incidents during the first 90 days of vehicle ownership
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
2. Survey results regarding the relationship between loyalty and product quality
When customers experience problems with their vehicles, we risk losing brand loyalty, which becomes a negative
financial impact for Stellantis. The probability of a customer repurchasing the same brand as their previous vehicle is:
● 23% when a satisfaction score of 5 is given for their previous vehicle;
● 50% when a satisfaction score of 9 is given for their previous vehicle.
Impact of OSAT with the previous car on Loyality to the brand
40
20
0
<5 5 6 7 8 9 10
Scope of the survey: Results May 2021
All brands, European Market 5 countries (France, Germany, Italy, Spain, United Kingdom)
Deliveries between September 2019 and August 2020
Questionnaire sent to customers after 3 months of ownership
dnarb
eht
ot
ytlayoL
Relationship between
loyalty and product quality
70
60
50
30
10
Score: Overall satisfaction with the previous car
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
3. Survey results regarding the relationship between loyalty to the brand and aftersales satisfaction
When customers have a positive aftersales service experience, the potential for loyalty to the brand and official dealers’
network is increased.
Higher customer satisfaction with the service experience leads to higher brand loyalty rates.
2021 U. S. Customer Service Index Study (CSI) as of March 2021
67%
64%
59%
60%
49%
40%
20%
700 and Less 701 to 850 851 to 950 951 and Higher
21% 19% 23% 37%
Scope of the survey: Original owners of light vehicles – cars and trucks, personal use vehicles only:
Registration Period:
▪ 2018 Models: July 2017 – February 2018
▪ 2019 Models: July 2018 – February 2019
▪ 2020 Models: July 2019 – February 2020
Source: J.D. Power 2020 Customer Service Index (CSI) Study (CSI Scores are based on 1-3 years owners)
J.D. Power Power Information Network (PIN) trade-in VIN data matched to 2020 CSI Study
dnarb
eht
ot
ytlayoL
Relationship between
loyalty to the brand and
aftersales satisfaction
18 points
80%
70%
50%
30%
CSI Score
CSI Score
Category mix
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
4.2.3.2 Opportunities We work to develop and
implement initiatives to create a
Feedback is an important part of the process to develop improvements. Applying the findings from customer surveys
positive customer experience
supports decisions on the most beneficial way to deploy resources.
Stellantis has the opportunity to strengthen customer satisfaction regarding vehicle and service quality.
We work to develop and implement initiatives that are designed to create a positive customer experience. We are
implementing several innovative initiatives to attract and retain customers.
■ Innovation in manufacturing quality
To support the continuous improvement approach to the quality of our products, Stellantis has implemented an
innovation based on Artificial Intelligence (AI) technology. These improvements have made it possible to automate
various control stations throughout the production line, vehicle and mechanical component factories to verify the
quality of the manufacturing process.
■ Product predictive maintenance
We work consistently on anticipating failures such as ones requiring towing, and more quickly identifying the root
cause of complex failures. The goal is that the vehicle spends as little time as possible at the dealership and that the
customer is more satisfied.
■ Used vehicle e-commerce solution
A used vehicle purchase module has been developed to provide customers speed, fluidity and transparency in the used For more information on the
vehicle purchase process. initiatives refer to 4.2.7
4.2.4 GOVERNANCE AND DECISION BODIES TO LEAD ACTIONS
The Customer Experience organization represents the customer’s voice inside Stellantis, and it is their mission to
satisfy the customer’s expectations. The Chief Customer Experience Officer is an EVP member of the Top Executive
Team and the Strategy Council. The Officer has the responsibility to decide when vehicles meet the needs of
customers and are ready to be sold around the world. The Officer defines quality targets for product and services
and the mid-term plan, which covers three years, and is reviewed with the Top Executive Team twice a year to ensure
we are challenging ourselves to meet the ever-changing market. To meet these targets around the world, the Chief
Customer Experience Officer delegates the authority to local Business Units and plant Directors to capture their
market needs and expedite the results.
The authority is defined in the Quality Policy, which governs the teams throughout the whole value chain: from the design
of our products and our services, to the support of each of our customers, everywhere in the world.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
To ensure that the Quality Policy is applied, the Quality Management System (QMS) is used to identify the requirements
linked to quality results. These requirements are the basis for the Company’s operational processes and quality standards,
which are continuously improved. The results from the field assessments support the conclusion that the QMS is efficient
and makes it possible to identify improvement actions.
The heads of Customer Experience of the divisions and the regions control the implementation of the Quality Policy and
are responsible for their QMS. They involve all the players with whom the Company works with in the extended company
such as suppliers, industrial partners, subsidiaries, importers and commercial networks to ensure the achievement of
Quality results. Each region reports its results during the monthly Business Review led by the CEO.
In manufacturing – in compliance with the regulatory requirements of the countries or regions in which we operate –
Stellantis plants are certified according to the standards:
■ ISO 9001 for vehicle manufacturing plants;
■ ISO 9001 or IATF 16949 for powertrain and raw materials plants.
The Company’s quality governance is global:
■ the Chief Customer Experience Officer manages the Corporate Customer Experience Division, oversees the Heads of
Customer Experience of the regions, brands, and other corporate divisions, and ensures that the Company meets its
quality objectives;
■ the Customer Experience teams in the Company Divisions oversee operational managers, provide technical guidelines
that include expectations to reach quality targets in all regions;
■ the Customer Experience teams in the regions are in charge of the quality of the region’s products and services, as well
as plants and points of sale.
Members of the Top Executive Team, including the Chief Customer Experience Officer, identify and confirm the strategic
quality ambitions and guide the quality initiatives of the Business Units and regions. Stellantis has set quality targets
consistent with its ambition in customer satisfaction. The Customer Experience Division performs internal and external
communication throughout the year to disseminate the concept of being customer-centric through technical and soft
skills training, supplier quality meetings and internal communication channels.
4.2.5 POLICIES TO EXECUTE THE STRATEGY
The Stellantis Quality Policy was signed by the CEO and communicated to employees worldwide.
Managers have to ensure that everyone on their team is aware of the policy and implements the actions to support it
within their scope.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
For Stellantis, being Number 1 means: being the best in customer satisfaction with excellent quality vehicles, services and Being Number 1 means:
mobility, providing a seamless customer journey, worldwide. This includes: being the best in customer
satisfaction with excellent
■ Customer Experience being at top level.
quality vehicles, services
■ Targeting zero defects on products and zero complaints regarding the services for our brands. and mobility, providing a
seamless customer journey,
■ Sustainable quality throughout the product life cycle.
worldwide
■ Exemplary responsiveness to customer feedback.
All Stellantis brands compete to be Number 1 in syndicated surveys in all their major markets.
Through our Quality Policy, we commit to implement actions to reach this ambition.
The commitment of everyone to think "Quality FIRST”: we are a customer-centric Company focused on providing
best-in-class customer experience through our behavior, decisions and actions, at all levels of the Company. For example:
■ We define the quality objectives in the planning phase program of new products and new services.
■ At each step, we check the conformity of the result with the defined requirements.
■ We react immediately to defects, whenever these defects are detected: when the vehicle is still in our hands or after
the vehicle has been handed over.
■ We capitalize on the analysis of our findings to avoid recurrence and to improve our performance.
We also engage our suppliers and our partners in achieving our quality ambitions:
■ By associating them directly in the analysis of issues and risks in a timely manner.
■ By being responsible and accountable for the quality of their deliverables at each phase of development.
■ By not hesitating to be intrusive and to escalate if necessary.
Stellantis has an operational Quality Management System. It is a sustainable means to achieve our Quality Ambition.
The Stellantis Quality Management System (QMS):
■ Defines the quality requirements for the processes in our value chain.
■ Defines the quality fundamentals whose rigorous application makes it possible to achieve the results.
We apply our Quality Policy throughout the Company's value chain, from the design of our products and services to the
support of our customers, whether digital or physical, anywhere in the world.
Stellantis employees are engaged from early phases such as strategy, planning and programming to sales and after-sales,
for our products, services and mobility services.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
Our collective engagement is supervised by qualified people with high level technical and managerial skills. The Customer
Experience Department is an independent function of Stellantis focused on compliance with the commitments made for
Quality. Each manager, including those in the commercial networks, is responsible for ensuring compliance with standards,
the conformity of results and the performance of processes within their scope.
A team of professional auditors performs internal audits to control the right roll out, application and consistency of results
of the QMS standards. Action plans are implemented and followed up when issues are identified.
4.2.6 ORGANIZATION AND RESOURCES
In accordance with our policy, quality is everyone’s business. To make this be a reality, Stellantis employees have regular
trainings and receive guiding information.
Stellantis has implemented a common approach to skills, with an aim to better allow the Company to be more sustainable
in anticipating changes and identifying the required competences.
This approach is centered on 15 global job families. The quality job family covers the activities to ensure that every
customer's journey with Stellantis' products and services is world class. To achieve the ambition to be Number 1 and be a
customer-centric company, Stellantis focuses on the following:
■ Definition of the processes, product and service quality targets to respond to the customers’ expectations.
■ Implementation of the Quality Management System, methods, and guidelines.
■ Management of all quality objectives throughout the definition, production, product and service life cycles in all regions.
700 employees in the corporate Customer Experience division and 12,600 (including hourly people working in plants) in
the quality job family act directly, in their everyday job, for the customer satisfaction.
4.2.6.1 Resources deployed to improve the quality of products
Our target being to ensure a total satisfaction of our customers, Stellantis employees respect the quality requirements
and apply the quality processes defined for each and every step of the value creation chain (design and development,
manufacturing, sales and aftersales, etc. including suppliers management).
Design and engineering phase
The shape, style and lines of a vehicle are direct contributors to the sale of vehicles and based on customer perception of Identified characteristics that
quality. Finish, robustness, and the materials used inside and outside, play an important role in the customer’s perception contribute on perceived quality
of quality. Perceived quality is a major factor in a customer’s purchasing decision. Stellantis aims to position each future >1,500
model at the highest customer satisfaction level of each of its automotive brands. More than 1,500 characteristics have
been identified, which contribute to the impression of perceived quality. Specific evaluation tools and technical benchmarks
are used to drive vehicle projects to the expected quality level.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
Performance and reliability during use of the vehicle Main standards defined
for verification
Quality of product performance is based on customer expectations for a given segment, enriched by the brand
experience it conveys. Around 40 different main standards e.g., visibility, seat comfort, etc., are defined for verification. 40
The Company strives to position each future model among or above the best for customer satisfaction within its
competitive segment. For initial quality and reliability, Stellantis strives for achieving the highest level delivered to the
customer. Several well-structured preventive processes are applied at each step including design, development and
manufacturing within the Company and from suppliers. Design considers the specific usage of products in all selling
regions with appropriate endurance driving sessions to simulate and better understand specific vehicle performance
over time.
Solving issues during use of vehicle
In order to mitigate impact on customers’ satisfaction, Stellantis is closely monitoring lead time to fix an issue in the
field so that affected vehicles are quickly repaired at the dealership, and production of new vehicles is secured to avoid
inconvenience and claims from new customers.
To minimize the lead time of issues, Stellantis has set up a cross functional team with experts from Customer Experience,
Engineering, Vehicle Programs, Aftersales, Manufacturing, and Purchasing activities to implement a fast-track process to
speed up the resolution of issues in the field.
The Cross Functional Team has set up a dedicated process called Reactivity Acceleration for Customer Enthusiasm (RACE),
which accelerates root causes analysis and solution implementation.
Since implementation in mid-2020, RACE process has reduced by half the average lead time of resolution for the most
impacting design issues.
Quality-in-use to preserve value of the vehicle
Quality-in-use criteria encompasses the aesthetic, aging of materials, tolerance of harsh treatment resulting from
daily use, and functional aspects like background noises and loss of minor performances. Stellantis improves vehicle
quality in order to reduce signs of aging and wear and tear, with the intention for the vehicle to look as close to new
after years of customer usage as possible. This has an important impact on the resale value which is a significant
pillar for customers and the Company. Specific vehicle aging tests are conducted to improve the baseline design
requirements and to manage the aging of the vehicle over time to improve the scope of usage and strengthen the
resale value.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
COMPANY TRANSFORMATION
THROUGH THE SOFTWARE STRATEGY
Stellantis’ vehicles transformation to an open software-defined architecture greatly expands the options customers will
have to add innovative features and services via regular over-the-air (OTA) updates keeping vehicles fresh, exciting,
and updated years after they have been built.
Those OTA updates are expected to be available quickly without waiting for a new hardware, and dramatically reduce
costs for both the customers and Stellantis, simplify maintenance for the user and sustain vehicle residual values.
Durability for long-term use
Customers expect a vehicle that ages well and does not incur excessive future expenditure. Durability is the performance Functional and aesthetic
characteristics checked on
of the vehicle over time, factoring in the variability of customer use. The goal is to ensure product performance without
every vehicle
major loss of functionality over time and without breakdown or defect. The Company is aiming to be in a leading role
in quality as one of the major pillars that leads to customer satisfaction. Stellantis has set up a continuous improvement 1,800
process to target the best-in-class position in durability for each product or sub-system.
Manufacturing quality
The manufacturing quality system is based on the Stellantis Production Way (SPW):
■ The Company controls the quality at the workstation, in some production quality gates during the process and in the
final inspection line to ensure the quality level of the manufactured vehicle. There are 1,800 functional and aesthetic
characteristics checked on every vehicle.
■ Vehicles are tested daily by professional operators in static and driving tests on specially designed tracks and on roads
outside the plant.
■ The Customer Experience division ensures plant audits in order to verify requirements.
The processes and KPIs follow the Company’s reference standards. To achieve the highest quality level in all
manufacturing plants, best practices based on practical lessons learned have been identified.
So far, plants are in the growth phase; best practices implementation is in progress and followed up by action plans.
Supplier quality management and development
The Company’s Purchasing Department works to ensure supplier quality management and development by:
■ usage of an Advanced Product Quality Planning and a Production Part Approval Process;
■ checking key processes and certifications such as critical supplier management;
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
■ defining supplier KPIs such as warranty performance; Stellantis aims to provide an
experience that delights
■ a supplier surveillance system with defined countermeasures and permanent personal contact with each supplier
each customer
manufacturing location.
Our approach is global, and actions are adapted to the most demanding customer expectations, taking into account
regional wants and needs, in order to handle perceived quality, quality-in-use and durability of our products. The same
analysis, processing and feedback standards are also applied for vehicles produced by our joint ventures.
4.2.6.2 Strategy and means deployed for a high-level quality of service and customer experience
Stellantis aims to provide an experience that delights each customer by:
The excellence o f the relationship throughout the customer journey
■ The customer's journey with our brands begins well upstream of the act of purchase and continues throughout the use
of the vehicle or mobility service. Through digital and physical interactions with the brand, the customer can discover
the product or the mobility service and become interested in it before committing to purchase. The relationship with the
brand continues throughout the use of the vehicle or the service.
■ The quality of service covers the entire relationship between the customer and the Company. The entire journey is a
major contributor to the excellence of the customer experience at every point of contact.
■ To achieve this quality of service, the Customer Experience function relies on teams and systems in each region.
High-level operational skills for the service of customers
■ The business centers describe the tasks for zone managers and each key function of the dealership. In a sales team, for
example, this includes dealership personnel such as the sales manager, sales assistant, sales consultant, and delivery manager.
■ Since 2018, to strengthen the customer-centric and interaction-centric mind-set, special attention has been paid to
training sales advisors on behavioral skills, an essential complement to expertise and application of working standards.
Hours of training provided
■ The training policy applies to key sales and technical positions at the point of sale. In 2022, the dealer networks provided
by dealer networks
7.4 million hours of training (classroom and remote).
7.4 M
■ The accreditation program is an international program intended for all personnel in contact with customers, performed
by our retailers, that assesses technical and behavioral skills.
Applying efficient processes to achieve results
To ensure the application of processes and the achievement of results:
■ Within each point of sale, each manager conducts checks on the application of standards which are complemented by
Zone Manager internal audits.
■ External audits are carried out annually on the application of operational standards.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
■ Frequent mystery call and shopping provides evaluation and opportunities to demonstrate respect for the customer
experience and behaviors desired by brands.
■ Yearly internal audits are conducted by the Customer Experience team.
Deviations identified during these audits are the subject of action plans, which are monitored at local and country levels.
New processes are evaluated to measure knowledge of the customer experience, including shopper survey and
Quality Observer.
Management of the quality of service provided in each country
The Stellantis roadmap is defined for the period 2022-2030. This roadmap makes it possible to steer the convergence and
achievement of our objectives.
Each country is responsible for its annual Quality of Service Plan, structured around main actions:
■ Assessment of skills and implementation of training plans.
■ Deployment of operational standards in each point of sale, standards which embody and guarantee all the requirements
of the brands, which each point of sale must comply with.
■ Quality control delivered by each point of sale, and reduction of dispersion between points of sale.
■ Treatment of deviations identified during checks and audits.
The identification of gaps makes it possible to define the priority actions to be implemented to achieve the objectives.
The annual Quality of Service Plan for each country is monitored by the Regions with the support of the Corporate
Functions; its day-to-day animation is handled by the monthly Country Quality Committees.
The quality of service is one of the major components of the sales policy applied by us in each country with its sales and
after-sales network.
A structured system for listening to the voice of customers throughout the journey
To monitor its quality of service, Stellantis relies on a vast survey system:
Customers who have answered
■ Benchmark surveys concerning the purchase and delivery of the vehicle and after-sales interventions, carried out in the sales and aftersales surveys
most of the countries where the Company operates, to position each brand vis-à-vis the competition and better target
6.6 M
expectations customers have, depending on the market.
■ Online surveys made by Stellantis to the customers after purchasing the vehicle and after each contact with the after-
sales service. In 2022, 6.6 million customers, of which 1.4 million for sales surveys and 5 million for aftersales surveys,
responded in 65 countries worldwide. This system gives customers complete freedom, they can answer questions at
the most convenient time for them and freely formulate their answers. The concerned dealer is alerted in real time on
any dissatisfaction and is due to react in less than 48 hours.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
■ These surveys are supported by online customer experience platforms, which allow each point of sale to challenge itself
in relation to country, region and zone results. These platforms make it even more simple and easy to use verbatim results
from surveys, and allow the monitoring of individual customer satisfaction. In addition to aggregating data for trend
analysis, these platforms allow the network to receive and respond to customer feedback in real time. Staff can be alerted
to new comments through a mobile app, allowing them to immediately contact an individual customer, if needed.
■ A plan is underway to converge the platforms within each region, monitor the major contact points of the customer
journey, integrate social media such as Google or Advisor to obtain a global vision of the customer experience in each
brand and strengthen action synergies.
Customer Care
Sellantis contact centers
There are dedicated customer care organizations in all regions to manage customer engagement activities worldwide. worldwide
Customer Care is the primary point of communication between customers and the Company; it provides support through
47
a variety of channels including telephone, chat, email, online and from the vehicle. Stellantis operates 47 contact centers
worldwide, with approximately 2,520 agents and supervisors. Customer Care handles more than 6.9 million of inbound
+12% than in 2021
contacts per year, offering a variety of services including requests for information, complaint management, roadside
assistance, and sales leads. The contact centers provide multilingual support with a strong focus on employing native
speakers of 19 languages.
Stellantis believes that skilled, knowledgeable, and motivated agents are essential for a high level of customer satisfaction. Agents and Supervisors
in contact centers
For this reason, in 2022, more than 48,500 hours of training have been delivered to agents and team leaders on new
products, customer handling behaviors, processes, systems and new procedures. 2,520
In 2022, Stellantis set the following priorities:
+17% than in 2021
■ Roll-out of a global, consistent methodology to measure customer satisfaction along with a strong regional governance
model to review performance and ensure continuous improvement; share best practices between regions on a weekly basis.
■ Enhance agent training and customer handling skills to reduce the level of effort for the customer.
■ Ensure sustainable operational performance throughout the customer journey from initial contact to timely resolution
of requests.
■ Provide a "Voice of the Customer" to relevant Stellantis internal stakeholders to identify emerging issues and improve
processes that impact the customer. Work to develop an automated solution for 2023 and beyond, to provide all
Stellantis departments easy access to the Customer's voice.
■ Develop a unique, tailored solution for both measuring and better understanding of the customers’ needs and challenges,
to make our customers’ journey with Stellantis a pleasant adventure.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
PRESS RELEASE
AMAZON AND STELLANTIS COLLABORATION Amazon and Stellantis Collaborate to
FOR CUSTOMER-CENTRIC CONNECTED EXPERIENCES Introduce Customer-Centric Connected
Experiences Across Millions of Vehicles,
“We will transform our vehicles into personalized living spaces and enhance the overall customer experience”, declared Helping Accelerate Stellantis’ Software
Transformation
CEO of Stellantis C. Tavares.
https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
Together, the two companies are creating a suite of software-based products and services that seamlessly integrate press-releases/2022/january/amazon-
with customers’ digital lives and add value over time through regular over-the-air (OTA) software updates: stellantis-collaborate-on-software-solutions
• Amazon and Stellantis are collaborating to deliver software solutions for new digital cabin platform, STLA
SmartCockpit, starting in 2024
• Stellantis selects Amazon Web Services (AWS) as its preferred cloud provider for vehicle platforms to deliver on its
long-term, software-focused vision
• AWS and Stellantis will launch collaborative engineering and innovation initiatives and tools to accelerate time to
market for new digital products and upskill Stellantis’ global workforce
• Amazon will be the first commercial customer for the new Ram ProMaster Battery Electric Vehicle (BEV) in 2023,
further expanding Amazon’s sustainable delivery network .
4.2.7 MAIN INITIATIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND RESULTS
4.2.7.1 Innovation Initiatives
Stellantis owned retail develops its used vehicle e-commerce solution: a 100% digital and personalized
customer journey
With SelliWay, a module integrated with the used vehicle bee2link expert tool, Stellantis Owned Retail has a solution that
enables 100% of the sale of used vehicles online, from vehicle trade-in to e-payment and delivery. This model aims to
meet the expectations of used vehicle customers in terms of speed, fluidity, and transparency.
From the first contact with the online sales agent, the customer is guided step–by-step through all key stages of the
purchase process, appraisal and online rating when there is a vehicle trade-in, real-time presentation of the used vehicle
in the Spoticar national inventory matched to the customer's choice, visualization of the chosen vehicle, online offer and
secure payment.
The addition of video, live chat and e-signature make the journey simple and convenient for the customer. During the
proof of concept from December 2020 to April 2021 in Belgium, 10% of total used vehicle sales were made through this
channel, without in person customer contact.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
The deployment of the tool is planned for all European subsidiaries of Stellantis Owned Retail. Find out more about this tool
https://www.breakinglatest.news/entertainment/
In 2021, the system was launched in Belgium, Spain, France and Portugal. In 2023, Italy, Germany and Austria will be selliway-the-used-stellantis-is-sold-online/
deployed.
Thus, all used vehicles proposed for sale on the Stellantis & You sites, whatever the brand, can be sold remotely with
the SelliWay tool .
Launch of an e-commerce program
As announced in the Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan, Stellantis has launched, in 2021, an outstanding 360°
Units sold online
e-commerce program to let our customers discover and buy products and services of the group, in a full customer
208,000
centric digital ecosystem aimed to answer prospects & customers omnichannel aspirations. Thanks to this program,
customers can access personalized services and offers in a seamless way, and buy them easily, both from home and
twice more than in 2021
in our stores.
In 2021, we sold 100,000 units online. Now we are taking the lessons learned, and plan to expand our online sales, doubling
each year until 2024, reaching 800,000 vehicles. And by 2030, one-third of our sales will come from online customers.
In 2022, we sold 208,000 units, in line with our objectives.
All of Stellantis in just one click thanks to the Marketplace
As a customer-centric company, Stellantis implements its Marketplace, a services ecosystem that provides owner and
user-based solutions with a full catalogue of meaningful services including financial solutions, insurance options, full
vehicle care options, accessory and personalization options, electrification services, connected services, mobility solutions
and more.
This ecosystem will be available via the web, mobile phone app, and in vehicle, giving customers an easy one-click access
to robust personalized solutions. Marketplace will allow Stellantis to lead the mobility market in three ways:
■ streamline all individual touchpoints into a one-click solution thereby eliminating pain points associated with shopping
for individual components separately;
■ provide competitive quality services to enable our customers to feel confident with our solutions;
■ use our insights to personalize the journey, ensuring relevance and simplicity.
As announced in the Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan, the implementation started in 2022 in both Italy and the U.S. with
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
specific brands from the legacy organizations. In 2023, these pilots will expand to all brands and to G5 countries in Europe
plus the U.S.. By 2024, Marketplace will be expanded to all countries of Europe and will commence in Latin America.
The goal is to have this approach launched in all regions and across all customer categories by 2027.
This will be a new channel for the entire business and is expected to contribute up to €4 billion in services revenue in
the future.
Innovation in manufacturing quality
As part of a continuous improvement approach to the quality of its products, an innovation based on Artificial Intelligence
(AI) technology has made it possible to automate various control stations throughout the production line vehicle and
mechanical component factories. The first control station was installed in the Sochaux factory, in France, at the end of
2020 and has proven the efficiency of the process. Stellantis has invested several millions of euros in 2021 and 2022 in the
implementation of 52 control stations in its various factories of which 48 are fully operational. The target is to install such
stations in more regions in the coming years.
Product predictive maintenance
Stellantis is piloting a new Predictive Maintenance service on its vehicles to more quickly identify the root cause of complex
failures, and to anticipate failures which can require towing. Complex failures can sometimes be difficult to analyze and
require lengthy investigations which can immobilize a customer's vehicle.
In 2020, analytical methods using Data Science models were implemented to help a dealership better understand complex
breakdowns and replace the right parts. This experimental phase has shown a positive impact on failures with unknown
origins, and on failures which needed intervention by technicians at the dealership.
Next step is to use these Data Science methods before the dealership intervention, and try to anticipate the breakdowns,
eliminating the need to collect real-time data from our customers’ existing onboard Controller Area Network (CAN)
sensor data. The term “CAN” designates a robust vehicle bus standard designed to allow microcontrollers and devices to
PRESS RELEASE
communicate with each other's applications without a host computer. Stellantis &You, Sales and Services and
FIDCAR Form After-sales Predictive
In 2021 and 2022, predictive algorithms were developed on several parts of the vehicle, such as powertrain and chassis.
Marketing Partnership
These algorithms, based on AI methods, were developed with real-time data, and can provide advanced alerts on specific
https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
breakdown typologies. Due to their good performances, stability, and financial efficiency, some are currently in a pilot press-releases/2022/april/stellantis-and-you-
sales-and-services-and-fidcar-form-after-sales-
phase for a planned industrialization in 2023, first for Europe then worldwide . predictive-marketing-partnership
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
4.2.7.2 Achievements Surveys show that
customers are more and
At Stellantis, we measure Product and Services Quality through several surveys, KPIs and external sources to be sure
more satisfied with the
multiple aspects of the customer experience are monitored and evaluated. The syndicated surveys are very important to
Stellantis models
measure our improvement as they allow us to see our relative position compared to competitors.
Achievements in Quality of Products
■ Product satisfaction is measured as the percentage of models in the first quartile of their competitive segment .
Surveys show that customers are more and more satisfied with the Stellantis models. The percentage of Stellantis
models ranked in the first quartile of their competitive segment about satisfaction with the product is increasing year
by year:
● 24% for vehicles sold in Model Year 2018;
● 31% for vehicles sold in Model Year 2020;
● 40.5% for vehicles sold in Model Year 2021.
The scope of the surveys is:
● all brands in U.S., Brazil, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, United Kingdom, China, Japan, India, South Korea and Turkey;
● questionnaires are sent to customers after approximately three to four months of ownership.
These are some examples of Stellantis brands ranking according to this product satisfaction measurement provided
by syndicated surveys:
■ U.S., two of our five brands are in the Top3, among 17 mainstream brands;
■ Brazil and Argentina, one of our four brands reached a Top3 ranking in both countries, among 12 brands in Brazil
and nine in Argentina;
■ China, one of our four brands is ranked in Top3, among 21 mainstream brands;
■ Europe:
• one of our five brands within the mainstream market is in the first quartile, among 19 mainstream brands;
• in the premium market, two of our four brands are in the Top3, among 15 premium brands.
■ In addition, with the same surveys, an initial quality is measured during the first three or four months of ownership,
by the number of Problems experienced Per one Hundred vehicles (PPH). The lower the PPH score, the higher the
vehicle quality.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
These are some examples of ranking according to this measurement:
● vehicle mainstream segmentation:
■ Europe, in some countries, the number of our brands ranked in Top3 increased from two in 2020 to four in 2022,
among 19 brands;
■ U.S.: One of our brands reached a Top3 position, among 17 brands;
● premium segment:
■ Europe, one of our brands is ranked in the first quartile, among 15 premium brands.
■ We also track the three-months product repair rate versus reference year (in base 100) .
The quality of Stellantis Low Emission Vehicles (LEVs ) has improved significantly. Since 2018, the failure rate of our LEVs
has decreased by 70%, thus converging to the Internal Combustion Engine (ICE) vehicles quality level. That is shown
on the graph.
Worldwide All Stellantis Brands vehicles failure rate - 3 Months In Service
-70%
-45%
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
ICE
LEV
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
■ Stellantis plants are certified to widely accepted product quality standards to provide customers an external recognition Stellantis vehicle assembly
on our ability to deliver products with a high level of quality. In 2022: plants certified ISO 9001
● 100% of the Stellantis vehicle assembly plants are certified ISO 9001; 100%
● 100% of the Stellantis powertrain plants are certified ISO 9001 or IATF 16949.
■ The actions taken regarding product quality are key in making warranty improvements. In 2022, warranty costs per
vehicle (CpV) have reduced by 26% compared to 2015, despite significant headwinds in foreign exchange, parts pricing, Stellantis powertrain plants
dealer labor, and dealer mark-up. Quality and warranty have improved over the years. In 2018, the CpV reduction was certified ISO 9001 or IATF 16949
even up to 41% compared to 2015.
100%
Stellantis Warranty costs evolution
% vs Calendar Year 2015 baseline
100%
-11%
-24%
-34% -33% -34% -26%
-41%
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
KPI includes: Warranty, Campaign, Goodwill, Buyback, Supplier recovery
Achievements in Quality of Service
In addition to meeting the industry’s defined product quality standards, customers expect consistently high quality in the areas
of consulting, service and repair with regards to vehicles and spare parts. Service quality is based on the service expectations
of the customer and the factual service received by the customer, and is a critical factor in retaining customer loyalty.
Feedback for service quality is gathered through various channels to monitor performance and support strategic decisions.
The Net Promoter Score (“NPS”) is a customer loyalty and satisfaction metric that measures the willingness of a customer to
recommend a sales or after sales store. It takes into account promoters and detractors.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
Evolution of the Net Promoter score in the service quality surveys for new vehicle purchases and after-sales VIDEOCHECK is a program
service NPS- cumulative 12 months - Base 100 2021 designed to increase
As values are confidential, the 2021 NPS result is considered as base 100. transparency for customers
102
101
100
2021 2022
STLA AFS NPS STLA NV NPS
VIDEOCHECK is a program designed to increase transparency for customers by showing them, with videos and clear
explanations, the points that need to be repaired on their vehicles. With this process, Stellantis is demonstrating a high
level of transparency and reinforcing customer confidence. Being informed, customers can make decisions on additional
repair needs that are proposed. VIDEOCHECK is now used by more than 6,000 repair locations worldwide, belonging to
Stellantis. 96% of the customers who experienced it have provided feedback that they are very satisfied with this service.
This is a major step toward increased customer satisfaction.
wiADVISOR is a service write-up and repair-order management solution developed in North America. This solution
engages the customer in the service lane and supports the customer service journey end-to-end. Among others, it
provides the following features:
■ online scheduling;
■ mobile check-in without contact;
■ video inspection;
■ vehicle flagging which are quality alerts based on specific criteria during vehicle write-up;
■ vehicle health check through a connection in the service lane;
■ In-dealer and customer communication;
■ supports global mobile app scheduling and status notifications;
■ active delivery including quality of service delivery checks.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
4.3 Vehicle safety
4.3.1 CONTEXT AND STELLANTIS POSITION
GRI 3-3
CSR issue/challenge #10: Vehicle safety
10 Vehicle safety
Vehicle safety is important to all road users including cyclists, pedestrians and other motorists. It is governed by laws
and regulations and may also be addressed through voluntary codes of practice, such as the Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development (OECD) published Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Governmental agencies
and departments such as the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) in the U.S., Ministry of Land,
Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT) in Japan, Federal Bureau of Motor Vehicles - Kraftfahrt-Bundesamt (KBA)
in Germany, Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency (DVSA) in the UK, Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport
(MOLIT) in South Korea are also introducing increasingly stringent vehicle safety measures.
Stellantis understands that safety is one of the most important expectations in society and impacts customer choices.
We integrate such expectations in each phase of the design of our vehicles. We work to anticipate enhanced safety
expectations related to connected and autonomous vehicles. In collaboration with our suppliers and partners, we
research and develop technology and innovations while analyzing internal test results with a target of continuously
improving design.
Company’s public position
As the vehicle safety and regulatory framework evolves, a holistic approach including the vehicle, the road infrastructure
and the vehicle environment is necessary. The Company is committed to the safety of its customers and other road
users. Stellantis has taken a lead role in the framework of ISO and actively participates with recognized organizations
in the rulemaking process and implementation of new regulations and standards regarding vehicle safety.
The company develops harmonized safety assessment processes to include risk-based criteria in its decisions.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
4.3.2 FORWARD-LOOKING VISION AND TARGETS
Commitment scoreboard
CSR ISSUE/ VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT RESULTS
CHALLENGE
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term 2022 2021
(End of Strategic Plan)
10 Vehicle safety Develop and offer safe Level of robustness of the 2025: Governance, 2030: External audit 2040: External audit The Global Safety The Stellantis Global
Owner: Chief products all around the global harmonized vehicle organization and performed each performed each Forum is meeting Safety Forum led by
Engineering Officer world, continuously safety organization, processes defined year, considering year, considering quarterly to the Global Technical
striving for state-of- processes and technical and set up, external new technologies new technologies define the safety Safety & Regulatory
the-art level of safety expertise, including active audit every 3 years, embedded in embedded in guidelines for Compliance
risk avoidance, as well safety, passive safety, performed by Stellantis products Stellantis products Stellantis. Project Executive was
as crash protection for cybersecurity (for its an independent development formalized and is
vehicle occupants and safety relevance), and assessment body processes include now a functional
vulnerable road users product safety and considering dedicated safety governance body
industry standards assessments by for global safety
including ISO26262, safety experts related strategies
ISO21448, ISO21434
4.3.3 IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES GRI 3-3
4.3.3.1 Risks
Stellantis believes that the automotive industry should adopt a systematic approach to ensure that vehicle safety remains
a fundamental corporate value that helps to protect drivers, passengers, the environment and our communities in a
socially responsible and sustainable manner. Vehicle safety is designed to address the risks that may be encountered and
is essential to support the reputation of the Company, its brands and technologies. Anticipating regulation changes and
participating in the rule making process and standardization efforts provide opportunities to adapt our vehicles and shape
the automotive industry.
Vehicle safety is included as part of our culture to increase vehicle quality by empowering employees, contractors, suppliers
and dealers to speak up if they have concerns. When risks are addressed, and opportunities to add content that achieve
improved safety ratings are deployed, safer vehicles are the result. Safer vehicles can increase customer and stakeholder
trust. Stellantis confirms its commitment to vehicle safety and supports an integrated approach including a sound impact
assessment to identify the most effective measures.
Stellantis faces risks related to vehicle safety issues, which could lead to product recalls and warranty obligations that may
result in direct costs and loss of vehicle sales with possible material adverse effects on our business.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
Product recalls may also harm our reputation, force us to halt the sale of certain vehicles and cause consumers to question
the safety or reliability of our products. The Company periodically initiates voluntary recall actions to address safety
issues related to vehicles sold. Recall costs substantially depend on the nature of the remedy and the number of vehicles
affected and may arise many years after a vehicle’s sale.
Stellantis also addresses the emerging cybersecurity risks resulting from the increased connectivity and software contents
in its vehicles through dedicated processes and resources . For more information refer to 4.3.6
4.3.3.2 Opportunities
We leverage innovation to reinforce the safety of our vehicles and services. All aspects of safety; including active, passive,
product and cyber are addressed in our processes and Innovations.
Stellantis is contributing to the definition of vehicle safety through several channels:
■ Strong commitment of safety-related standardization activities (e.g. Cybersecurity, Functional Safety and Safety of the
Intended Functionality, relevant for autonomous driving and Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS)).
■ Involvement in innovation initiatives and consortiums include:
● research activities on “Vehicle to X” and 5G technologies, which may help make the vehicles of the future more
intelligent and comfortable for users. The autonomous functions may contribute to fewer accidents caused by PRESS RELEASE
human error and reduce driver fatigue; Stellantis Participates In U.S. Test of 5G
Connected Vehicle Technologies for Real-
● involvement in consortiums in this field include 5G Carmen (cross border tests on service continuity), C-Roads-2 and
time Safety Notifications
ICT4CART while on-going:
https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
■ activities in 5G Croco and 5G Open Road (test in real-life driving conditions of 5G continuity); press-releases/2022/april/stellantis-participates-
in-u-s-test-of-5g-connected-vehicle-
■ activities in 5G Automotive (5GAA) and Telematica per i Trasporti e la Sicurezza (TTS) . technologies-for-real-time-safety-notifications
■ Participation continues on several cooperative projects regarding the safety of autonomous driving such as HIDRIVE
for in-use monitoring of car behavior, SETL4L5 (autonomous driving validation for Levels 4 and 5 automation), Pegasus
VVM (verification and validation methods for automated driving), 3SA project in the SystemX French consortium
(methods and tools for safety simulation).
■ https://www.hi-drive.eu/ . Go to the website
■ Involvement in several working groups of the French Plateforme Automobile (PFA) on the safety of automated driving, https://www.hi-drive.eu/
e.g. for the development of autonomous shuttles.
■ Commitment to European research projects such as EVADE (assessment of the performance of ADAS like Automated
Emergency Braking and Automated Evasive Steering) and V4Safety (Vehicles and Vulnerable road users Virtual
eValuation of Road Safety).
■ Incremental introduction of software updates over-the-air on certain components (e.g. connectivity components,
telematics) to reduce the cybersecurity risk exposure by reducing the update implementation time.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
4.3.4 GOVERNANCE AND DECISION BODIES TO LEAD ACTIONS
Stellantis created a unified Global Safety Forum led by the Technical Safety and Regulatory Compliance Officer and
includes the Senior Vice-Presidents of R&D. This forum guides the Company on the application of future standards and
ratifies future processes and procedures concerning vehicle safety and security. We are growing our Transversal Safety
Expertise Networks to further develop and improve our safety processes and assess their implementation in our vehicles.
At a regional level, decision making processes are in place to address potential vehicle safety issues.
4.3.5 POLICIES TO EXECUTE THE STRATEGY GRI 3-3
Delivering safe products to our customers is a fundamental objective of Stellantis and is among the essential responsibilities
described in our Code of Conduct. We work to achieve compliance with regulatory standards to deliver quality products
and services with a high level of safety and reliability for all road participants, including professional drivers. Employees are
expected to comply with the implemented safety standards, taking appropriate steps to prevent, identify and correct any
non-compliance with such standards. Any vehicle safety issue encountered must be immediately reported to supervisors,
the Compliance or Legal Departments or through the Whistleblowing Policy Integrity Helpline.
4.3.6 ORGANIZATION AND RESOURCES GRI 416-1
Safety research
The Stellantis advanced engineering organizations around the world apply virtual reality methods and innovative
technological solutions for virtual and physical tests. The engineers also analyze real world data to develop and
assess effective vehicle safety systems, protection for vulnerable road users and integration of active and passive
safety systems.
Stellantis participates in national and international organizations that are focused on areas of occupant and vulnerable road
user safety, such as assisting in the development of new and improved safety standards and automated driving system
best practices. We are a member of the Initiative for the Global Harmonization of Accident Data (IGLAD), a consortium of
auto manufacturers that collects and analyzes traffic accident data to improve road and vehicle safety and has supported
the EU project MeBeSafe. In Europe, the Company is a stakeholder of the LAB, a joint laboratory with the Renault Group,
which is working on accident case studies, bio-mechanics and driver behavior. In the U.S., the Company collaborates with
other automakers through groups like the U.S. Council for Automotive Research (USCAR), to identify technical issues and
conduct research related to vehicle safety.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
Product development
For every Stellantis vehicle project, safety experts perform technical assessments throughout the project and those
results are summarized and communicated to the Product Development Department’s top management for review and
approval to continue. An harmonized process is currently being incorporated and will be utilized on all future Stellantis
vehicle projects. The network of appointed safety experts define, apply, monitor and improve safety practices in Stellantis,
and contribute to the definition of international standards.
Stellantis recently invested €33 million in its testing hubs to address the validation needs of its new technologies, PRESS RELEASE
including safety features . Stellantis Invests €33 Million in Global
Testing Hubs for Cutting-Edge Engineering
Product investigation
https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
press-releases/2022/june/stellantis-invests-
Stellantis has a dedicated team to investigate field issues including those with potential safety consequences. 33-million-in-global-testing-hubs-for-cutting-
edge-engineering
Investigations are launched to determine potential consequences and corresponding safety and non-compliance risks and
countermeasures e.g., field actions and product safety recalls. The investigation team coordinates the responses to the
identified incidents with the engineering, manufacturing, and customer care organizations, and external suppliers. The
procedures include opportunities for early detection, crisis management and immediate action. The safety expert network
can contribute to this process for the root cause analysis and risk assessment.
In addition, dedicated regional decision-making bodies called Vehicle Regulations Committees (VRC) meet regularly to
systematically analyze the potentially safety-relevant anomalies detected in production or in the field. The VRC determine
the proper course of action, e.g. safety recalls, under the chairmanship of the Technical Safety and Regulatory Compliance
Officer, who is in the Planning organization but operates as an independent authority on safety.
Cybersecurity Cybersecurity considered
throughout vehicle's
Securing customer data and our vehicles from cybersecurity threats is a priority for Stellantis. We have a cross-functional life cycle (development,
team focused on the security of our corporate systems and vehicles by monitoring threats, clearly defining requirements manufacturing, use,
followed by design and implementation reviews, validation and penetration testing of products and services and incident service and disposal)
response. Cybersecurity is considered throughout a vehicle’s life cycle including during development, manufacturing, use,
service and disposal.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
STELLANTIS ORGANIZATION TO MANAGE CYBERSECURITY FOR CONNECTED VEHICLE
Connected Service,
Embedded Electronic
Maintainability
Architecture
& Diagnosability
Vehicle loT Platform Operation & Customer
& Cloud Support
Off-Board Cybersecurity Security / Operation Center
The processes to manage the Cybersecurity-by-design concept are based on specific activities linked to the Stellantis
organization and technical solutions:
■ Onboard with one Electronic Architecture, by using standard cryptographic mechanisms to protect and to isolate the
Connected domain to the Safety domain, as powertrain and chassis.
■ Off-Board platform with a complete informatics infrastructure to interconnect Servers, Applications, and Interfaces to
guaranty the end-to-end the communication with vehicles associated to high level of security.
■ Manufacturing environment to configure the vehicles in the assembly line, by using tools connected to the backend to
recover the good configuration for each vehicle produced.
■ After-Sales to diagnose and to maintain vehicles, by using dedicated tools connected to one specific maintenance
server with strong authentication.
■ Crisis Management organization and processes to manage the mitigation plan, considering the incidents, attacks or
vulnerabilities discovered during the vehicle live cycle.
draoB-nO
draoB-ffO
Cybersecurity-by-design
management concept
DESIGN PRODUCTION RUN
Design Validation Production Operations Maintenance Decommissioning
Crisis Prevention
General
& Management
Assembly
recalls
Process
Campaigns
Engineering
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
The Stellantis processes on Cybersecurity concern all divisions involved in connected vehicles, from the design until the The Stellantis processes
decommissioning. Specific end-to-end cybersecurity assessment is established for all new design, on embedded electronic on Cybersecurity concern
components (Infotainment, Telematics, Gateway) and in off-board ICT platform for connected vehicles. all divisions involved in
connected vehicles
The global Stellantis organization for the product considers the entire activities in each division involved: Engineering,
Manufacturing, After-Sales, Information & Communication and Quality division for Incident response and crisis
management.
One dedicated Cyber Governance for the product manages all field issues on Safety, Privacy, Operational and Financial.
We are engaged in the development of international industry standards through participation with the International
Organization for Standardization (ISO) and SAE International committees and in the development of best practice
guidelines through participation in the Automotive-Information Sharing and Analysis Center (Auto-ISAC). Auto-ISAC
enhances the industry’s ability to quickly learn of new threats and vulnerabilities and to work collaboratively on threat
intelligence for triage.
In 2022, in compliance with UNECE regulation (RU155) incorporated into GSR v2 2019/2144, Stellantis has received
certifications on its Cyber Security Management System (CSMS), covering methodologies and processes needed to
address cybersecurity in its products and services.
The objective for 2023 is to pass cybersecurity type approval for six electronic architectures, in compliance with UNECE
regulation (RU155).
4.3.7 MAIN INITIATIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND RESULTS GRI 3-3 GRI 416-1 GRI 416-2
As explained in our Code of Conduct, our workforce members contribute to achieving compliance with regulatory
standards ensuring that the Company delivers quality products and services with a high level of safety, reliability and
environmental performance.
Vehicle Safety Technology
By providing real-time availability
Stellantis responds to consumer expectations of high tech solutions in their vehicles by devoting significant resources to of services of information,
research and develop technologies that support drivers and passengers' ability to safely interact with their vehicle and Stellantis is contributing to
improve safety and the mobility with the world around them. By providing real-time availability of services and information, the Company is contributing
experience
to improve safety and the mobility experience.
Stellantis offers active (primary) and passive (secondary) features for diverse drivers and vehicle segments, along with
tertiary safety elements. The intent of active safety systems is to help drivers avoid crashes by alerting them to certain
potentially hazardous situations or assisting them in mitigating the risk posed by certain types of identified hazards.
These systems monitor surroundings, the status of the vehicle, driver behavior and include semi-automated technologies
that provide assistance to drivers in certain instances, with the driver retaining appropriate control. Stellantis is exploring
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
new connected safety notification technologies, Multi-access Edge Computing (MEC) and Safety Cloud, that provide Passive or secondary safety
drivers advanced notification warnings of potential hazards in their path. systems are designed to
help mitigate the effects
Passive or secondary safety systems are designed to help mitigate the effects of a crash. These include occupant restraint
of a crash
technology and the use of more advanced materials that enable us to improve crash energy management. Vehicles are
structurally designed to dissipate an impact in a controlled manner, due to the positioning of shock absorbing structures
and other design features, while also promoting vehicle repairability. Deformation of the passenger compartment is
minimized. Airbags and restraint systems absorb energy which leads to a reduction of the impact on occupants in crashes.
In the area of tertiary safety, or post-accident emergency response, Stellantis provides emergency rescue sheets with
information to rescue teams or first responders on special design elements and the position of components to be
considered when assisting the occupants of vehicles involved in an accident. In addition, connectivity functions provide
assistance when an accident or health related incident occurs in the vehicle. The occupants are connected with a dedicated
assistance center that pinpoints the vehicle. For instance, motorway control centers in Europe are automatically warned
of any accidents on their roads via the emergency call service in the Company’s equipped vehicles as this is becoming a
legal obligation in Europe.
COMPANY TRANSFORMATION
THROUGH THE SOFTWARE STRATEGY
Stellantis mapped out its software strategy to deploy next-generation tech platforms, building on existing connected
vehicle capabilities to transform how customers interact with their vehicles. Over-the-air (OTA) updates expand the
options customers have to add innovative features and services keeping vehicles updated with the latest offerings
years after they have been built, while dramatically reducing costs for both customers and Stellantis.
Owners of Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep, Ram, Fiat and Alfa Romeo vehicles will receive a free over-the-air software update
called the Emergency Vehicle Alert System or EVAS, which was introduced at the 2022 CES electronics show in Las
Vegas. Stellantis is the first automaker to implement its EVAS to 2018-and-newer Stellantis cars, trucks and SUVs.
Initially available only in North America, it could be offered eventually in all 14 Stellantis brands worldwide.
The new system warns drivers of nearby emergency vehicles, making it possible to provide more time to react. OTA
alerts are sent from emergency vehicles to nearby drivers as well as other responding emergency vehicles within
For more information
approximately a half-mile. Real time data is used from emergency vehicles using the HAAS company’s service called
https://www.thedetroitbureau.com/
Safety Cloud. This gives drivers an additional warning and more time to move over and slow down compared to 2022/01/stellantis-first-to-offer-emergency-
conventional lights and sirens alone . vehicle-alert-system/#:~:text=Stellantis%20is%20
the%20first%20automaker,which%20costs%20
%2412.99%20a%20month
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
ACTIVE SAFETY SYSTEMS
EXAMPLES OF ACTIVE SAFETY SYSTEMS
Constantly monitor the performance Can prevent accidents from happening Avoid or mitigate an accident
and surrounding of a vehicle altogether or actively help the driver to pre-impact, so before it happens
reduce the impact
EXAMPLES OF ACTIVE SYSTEMS THAT GIVE THE DRIVER MORE CONTROL IN DANGEROUS SITUATIONS
Anti-lock braking Electronic stability control Autonomous emergency braking Lane Keeping
(ABS) (ESC) Automatic (AEB) Assist
This figures presents some of the active safety system that can support the driver, by sensing the vehicle environment,
informing the driver and/or acting as needed on the vehicle dynamics.
Safety Roadmap Validations performed
by Stellantis
Stellantis continuously evolves its vehicles by offering enhanced safety technology and state of the art features that
> 680,000
are proven to help reduce crashes and injuries. All Stellantis vehicles are rigorously tested and validated internally before
being tested by outside stakeholders such as the U.S. government (NHTSA) or the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety
+ 70% versus 2021
(IIHS) or NCAP organizations. In 2022, Stellantis performed about 680,000 validations, either by physical testing or virtual
validation (versus 400,000 in 2021).
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
To address the current traffic safety priorities globally, Stellantis vehicles are developed with technologies such as:
CSR KPI - Responsible Sourcing
2022 75%
Lane Keeping Assist
2021 57%
2022 68%
Automatic Emergency Braking
2021 63%
2022 69%
Rear seats seatbelts with pretensioner
or load limiter 2021 66%
2022 75%
Speed limiting device
2021 69%
Stellantis also conducts research and innovation activities in the field of crash and occupant safety. The frontal roof airbag
is an example of innovation that offers improved protection to the front passenger occupant in certain crash situations.
Product Investigations and Recall campaigns SASB-250a.3
When potential vehicle safety issues arise, we promptly investigate and take corrective action as previously stated . For more information refer to 4.3.6
This includes initiating safety recall campaigns when appropriate. Stellantis aims to improve the overall customer experience
during the safety recall process through timely and accurate communication and reduced customer inconvenience. In
2022, there were 139 recall campaigns involving 14,708,345 initial recall notices concerning vehicles produced over several
years worldwide (versus versus 124 recall campaigns involving 3,003,480 in 2021). Programs are in place to raise public
awareness regarding the need for customers to regularly check for open recalls and the importance of getting recall
repairs completed.
The operations carried out are free of charge for the customer.
The three largest recall campaigns by total number of vehicles are:
■ campaign on approximately 8.7 million vehicles to extend the Takata non-dessicated inflator campaign across all STLA
regions;
■ campaign on approximately 1.4 million vehicles to prevent possible inadvertent tailgate opening on certain RAM trucks;
■ campaign on approximately 0.4 million vehicles to solve an issue that could prevent the ESC telltale from being
illuminated when necessary.
All 2022 recall campaigns were voluntary.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
All of these campaigns are carried out transparently with respect to: All these campaigns are
carried out transparently
● the relevant requirements of authorities (regulatory filing of declarations for safety campaigns):
■ each notification document submitted to the authorities indicates: the models and parts concerned, vehicle
manufacture dates, type of risk, description of the defect and corrective measures taken;
● the automotive brands’ dealership networks:
■ the traceability of the components purchased during manufacturing enables the Company to draw up a list of
vehicles that are potentially concerned. When a campaign is launched an alert including all the information, such as
a list of vehicles concerned, content of the message to customers, necessary procedure and parts required is sent
to the dealership networks via the appropriate IT systems;
● the owners of the vehicles involved notified individually:
■ the method used to notify the customer is in line with the local regulations in each country. The affected customers
are invited to make an appointment with an authorized brand repair facility to make the necessary adjustments;
■ the repair facility contacted provides all the necessary information, including the appointment date, how long the
repair will take, the confirmation that the repairs are free of charge, the terms for using a replacement vehicle, etc.;
■ the customer is asked to notify the brand of any change in vehicle status, including its sale, end-of-life or change
of address.
Stellantis monitors the implementation of each campaign specifically based on progress indicators and the actual repairs
made in each campaign. Repeat requests are sent to customers who do not come forward.
Theft Resistance
Stellantis has long been working on making vehicles resistant to theft and protecting vehicles and the objects inside
them from malicious individuals. Vehicles are designed to help avoid break-ins referring to standards in line with leading
authorities and taking into account current threats.
Since 2011, a unit has been analyzing and addressing potential or known vulnerabilities, conducting statistical and Internet
monitoring, and analyzing theft methods in conjunction with the police. This work has, for example, spurred alterations to
the design of door locks to strengthen their resistance to break-ins.
We work closely with cybersecurity experts and are assisted by specialized firms. For instance, encryption algorithms
used to protect vehicle unlocking and starting are continually improved. The latest generation vehicles use encryption
that meets the highest standards.
YTILIBOM
NO
SNOITATCEPXE
’SREMOTSUC
GNIGNAHC
GNITEEM
4
Training Training sesions on
harmonized Stellantis safety
Product safety-based training materials are captured in two courses; Introduction to U.S. Motor Vehicle Safety and
process have begun in 2022
Safety Defect Determination. Due to legislative and regulatory changes the U.S. Motor Vehicle Safety course has been
launched for Stellantis employees in April 2022. These web-based courses are open as a reference to all former FCA global
employees but they are a mandatory requirement for specific organizations in North America.
Training sessions on harmonized Stellantis safety processes have begun in 2022.
Our suppliers in North America have access to a web-based training program that helps them understand expectations
and supplier-specific requirements of the U.S. Motor Vehicle Safety Act and regulations of the U.S. National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration (NHTSA). This training was launched in 2017 and incorporated feedback from NHTSA. Building
upon this work, a collaboration with the Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG) and other automakers standardized
this training and made it available throughout the automotive industry.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
5 PREVENTING ETHICS VIOLATIONS
BY PROMOTING OUR ETHICAL CULTURE
5.1 ETHICS IN GOVERNANCE AND BUSINESS PRACTICES 284
5.1.1 Context and Stellantis position 284
5.1.2 Forward-looking vision and targets 285
5.1.3 Identification and management of risks and opportunities 285
5.1.4 Governance and decision bodies to lead actions 288
5.1.5 Policies for ethics in our business 294
5.1.6 Allocated resources to Achieve Our Ethical Objectives 298
5.1.7 Initiatives and Achievements in the pursuit of Ethical Excellence 300
5.1.8 Detailed key performance indicators 304
5.2 RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT OF PERSONAL INFORMATION 306
5.2.1 Context and Stellantis position 306
5.2.2 Forward-looking vision and targets 307
5.2.3 Identification and management of risks and opportunities 308
5.2.4 Governance and decision bodies to lead actions 309
5.2.5 Policies to execute the strategy 310
5.2.6 Organization and resources 310
5.2.7 Main initiatives, achievements and results 311
5.3 RESPONSIBLE INFORMATION TO CUSTOMER 313
5.3.1 Context and Stellantis position 313
5.3.2 Forward-looking vision and targets 314
5.3.3 Identification and management of risks and opportunities 314
5.3.4 Governance and decision bodies to lead actions 315
5.3.5 Policies to execute the strategy 316
5.3.6 Organization and resources 317
5.3.7 Main initiatives, achievements and results 318
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
STELLANTIS’ CSR MACRO-RISK/PILLAR IV. PREVENTING ETHICS VIOLATIONS
Integrity and ethics are integral in our business practices. They are our foundational principles. We understand that acting
with integrity requires vigilance and commitment. Integrity is a source of competitiveness, a foundation of Stellantis’
sustainable growth and the way to build a reputation that our customers, workforce and other stakeholders can trust and
rely on. Furthermore, it is through our strong culture of ethics and integrity that we prevent ethics violations.
Stellantis works to comply with the increasingly complex national and international regulations focusing on matters such
as conflict minerals, balance and integrity of business relationships, consumer protection, international sanctions, and
personal data protection rules. Stellantis also learns from international standards (OECD Guidelines, ILO conventions, UN
Global Compact, among others) when defining its policies. We implement ethical standards, specifically in our Code of
Conduct, the adherence to which is a requirement of our workforce and business partners.
While we strive for integrity in everything we do, we understand the special role of integrity in compliance with regulations
or standards that promote sustainable development, such as distribution of value, progressive taxation, cash transfers
and investment in human capital, and regulation and strategies of development of inclusive growth.
5.1 Ethics in governance and business practices
5.1.1 CONTEXT AND STELLANTIS POSITION GRI 2-15 GRI 2-27 GRI 3-3
CSR issue/challenge #11: Ethics in governance and business practices 11 Ethics in governance and business
practices
Integrity and ethics are integral to our culture and business practices. They are our foundational principles, a source of
competitiveness, and the basis for our sustainable growth. They help us avoid costly regulatory violations, and build a
reputation that our customers, workforce and other stakeholders can rely on.
Company’s public position
Our culture is built upon the conviction of doing what is right, under the overarching principles established in the Stellantis
Code of Conduct. This approach not only looks at our internal processes and controls, but also at our compliance with
complex national and international regulations and standards that promote transparency. Our Governance, Code of
Conduct and various charters are available on our website for public review . Our approach relies on developing a culture Governance, Code of Conduct
of transparency and integrity throughout the Company through the effective deployment of balanced governance, and various charters
a compliance program that is subject to appropriate outside benchmarking and effective mechanisms that allow our https://www.stellantis.com/en/company/
governance/corporate-regulations
workforce to alert us of any noncompliance concerns.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
5.1.2 FORWARD-LOOKING VISION AND TARGETS GRI 3-3
Commitment scoreboard
CSR ISSUE/ VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT RESULTS
CHALLENGE
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term 2022 2021
(End of Strategic Plan)
11 Ethics in Promote a culture Number of days to 2025: Personalized 2030: Personalized 2050: Personalized 1.3 days 1.9 days
governance and of transparency and provide a personalized first answer within first answer within first answer within
business practices integrity by requiring first answer on reported 1.5 days 1.25 days 1 day
Owner: General our workforce to concerns regarding
Counsel comply with our Code potential violations of the
of Conduct, applying Code of Conduct
appropriate discipline
for non-compliance, and
World Most Ethical 2025: Obtain 2030: Maintain WME 2050: Maintain WME Satisfactory Satisfactory
requiring our business
(WME) Company status recognition by status by Ethisphere status by Ethisphere progress towards progress towards
partners to adopt and
with Ethisphere* Ethisphere as one objective objective
apply similar ethical
of the World's Most
standards and controls
Ethical Companies as
part of their WME
process
Board gender balance 2025: at least 40% of 2030: at least 40% of 2050: at least 40% of 27% - Currently 27% - Currently
(% of female directors) Board seats should be Board seats should Board seats should be we have 3 female we have 3 female
occupied by women be occupied by occupied by women directors directors
and 40% by men women and 40% by and 40% by men
upon expiration of men upon expiration upon expiration of
current terms of current terms current terms
* The Ethisphere WME process is described here https://ethisphere.com/what-we-do/worlds-most-ethical-companies
5.1.3 IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES GRI 3-3 GRI 207-1 GRI 215
The Chief Audit and Compliance Officer periodically conducts a Compliance Risk Assessment to ensure that the Ethics
and Compliance Program identifies compliance risks, takes proper steps to mitigate such risks, and does so in an
efficient manner. The identification of compliance risks includes communication and collaboration with the ERM and
Audit functions, as well as the integration of information from various relevant sources, including the Integrity Helpline
channel. Mitigation steps include training, communication, third party management, and disciplinary enforcement
for violations of the Code of Conduct. Every functional element of the program is subject to analysis for continuous
improvement, benchmarking, and audit. Opportunities for improvement are compiled and periodically reviewed by the
Ethics and Compliance Committee.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
In line with directives from the Ethics and Compliance Committee, the Chief Audit and Compliance Officer devotes special Priority Compliance
focus to the following areas of the law with the understanding that in each case, any violation of these areas of the Topics Committee
law would be contrary to our ethical principles, and would also subject the Company to potential penalties, reputational
damage and litigation:
RISK #1 COMPETITION
Risk Description Competition in the marketplace is a subject of significant scrutiny by relevant authorities all over the world.
Penalties for infractions to fair competition laws are serious, are often for significant monetary amounts and tend
to generate private litigation.
Achievements/ We believe in robust and fair competition in the marketplace, and strongly support the benefits it provides to our
Opportunities customers. Competition also promotes innovation. We work to strictly follow the competition laws that apply to
our business all over the world to prevent anticompetitive and unfair trade practices such as market-sharing,
price-fixing, information sharing and dumping. An antitrust policy has been released for all employees.
Also a compliance monitoring system for participation in professional associations meetings will be put in place on
a pilot basis in Enlarged Europe, for its subsequent deployment globally, in order to prevent, detect and manage
antitrust risks and compliance activities.
RISK #2 RESPONSIBLE RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
Risk Description We understand that the success of our business depends on our ability to interact effectively with governments,
customers, suppliers and civil society at large. Failure to manage the relationships properly and effectively can
undermine goodwill in the communities where we do business and place in jeopardy, the success of our business.
Achievements/ Based on the experiences of its predecessor entities, Stellantis works diligently to increase transparency in all
Opportunities dealings with its stakeholders, including unionized labor, suppliers, business partners and NGOs.
RISK #3 EXPORT CONTROLS AND SANCTIONS
Risk Description Export controls reflect the decisions of governments regarding national security and economic policy. Failure to
abide with such controls could result in enforcement actions or legal proceedings that would jeopardize our cross
border operations, causing a substantial negative effect.
Achievements/ Our specialists around the world classify our products with an intention to ensure compliance with regulations that
Opportunities restrict trade. Our team also ensures that we are in compliance with economic sanctions that restrict or prohibit
trade in certain countries or with designated companies or individuals. In 2022, in response to the Russia/Ukraine
crisis, we enhanced our ability to detect sanctioned entities or persons by tools that will alert us not only of any
restricted individual or entity in our supply chain, but also of any entity that is majority-owned by such restricted
individual or entity.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
RISK #4 LOBBYING AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS
Risk Description Our interactions with governments allow legislative bodies to develop regulations and standards that are
responsive to the needs of our customers, communities and other stakeholders. Failure to apply proper controls in
the manner in which we manage these interactions would place Stellantis at risk for a violation of laws regarding
political contributions or corruption. Also, failure to engage would risk the perspectives and expertise of Stellantis
not being included in the creation and amendment of legislation, regulations and governmental policy.
Achievements/ The Public Affairs Department is dedicated and trained to ensure an efficient and fair working relationship with
Opportunities governments, in full compliance with the law and corporate policies regarding anti-corruption. We impose controls
to implement the Stellantis policy that no Company funds or assets may be used for contributions to any political
party or candidate. In 2022, we kept legislative bodies apprised of strategic issues affecting the automotive
industry, such as the shift to electric vehicles.
RISK #5 DATA PROTECTION
Risk Description Privacy is a fundamental right that is protected by law in the multiple jurisdictions where we do business.
A company’s failure to protect the privacy of its stakeholders can be heavily penalized in fines, private litigation
and reputational damage.
Achievements/ Stellantis considers the personal rights and privacy of each individual to be fundamental and intends to protect
Opportunities them. Stellantis works to comply with privacy requirements by applying to Company processes, the principles
relating to the processing of personal data such as lawfulness, correctness, transparency, data minimization,
conservation and purpose limitation, integrity and confidentiality.
RISK #6 ANTI-CORRUPTION
Risk Description Corruption has a corrosive and detrimental impact on society. Under applicable legislation, which in a multinational
company such as Stellantis, includes the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, French Law Sapin II, and the United
Kingdom Bribery Act, companies that engage in corrupt activities are heavily penalized.
Achievements/ Stellantis is committed to taking affirmative steps to prevent any corruption in its business. These include
Opportunities training, large prohibitions of gifts, specific controls for relations with government officials, dedicated controls
for prevention. The policies and procedures relevant to the Company’s anti-corruption program apply to all
its subsidiaries and joint ventures in which the Company owns greater than 50%. In 2022, the Company also
harmonized due diligence controls from exPSA and exFCA into a common Stellantis system that performs due
diligence on business partners that meet risk criteria for the Company.
RISK #7 TAX
Risk Description Failure to comply with applicable tax rules and regulations could result in enforcement actions or legal proceedings
that may result in incremental tax payments and the application of late payment interest and penalties.
Achievements/ The Company believes that taxes are key contributors to the economic and social development of the communities
Opportunities in which we operate and play a vital role in creating long-term value. We are committed to fulfilling our fiscal
obligations by administering and paying all required taxes. We work to maintain an open, honest, transparent
relationship in all dealings with tax authorities. We do not use “tax haven” jurisdictions for the avoidance of tax.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
RISK #8 FAIR-TRADE
Risk Description We are highly cognizant that our business model depends on operation within accepted norms of international
trade. In the absence of these norms, the management of our international supply chains would become more
challenging and costly, increasing the costs of our products ultimately to the consumer.
Achievements/ With operations spanning more than 130 countries, Stellantis supports the World Trade Organization (WTO)
Opportunities rules-based system and encourages international trade deals. Trade agreements foster innovation, growth
and wider customer choices at lower prices. The Company favors the elimination of tariffs, as well as a greater
convergence towards international standards and trade facilitation, to provide better market access by reducing
technical barriers and customs procedures in both a proportional and coordinated manner.
Where appropriate, our compliance processes are not limited to complying with the law. For example, in addition
to compliance with regulations regarding integrity in business relationships, consumer protection and personal
data protection rules (GDPR), we consider other types of guidance such as OECD Guidelines, ILO conventions,
UN Global Compact, and the International Monetary Fund’s initiatives for distribution of value, progressive
taxation, investment in human capital and development of inclusive growth.
5.1.4 GOVERNANCE AND DECISION BODIES TO LEAD ACTIONS GRI 3-3
Our ethical culture begins in our governance bodies, their members, and their proper oversight of our business. Go to the Company’s website
Key aspects of Stellantis governance bodies, and their members, are described below with more detailed information https://www.stellantis.com/en
available on the Company’s website as well as in the Annual Report . Annual report
https://www.stellantis.com/content/dam/
stellantis-corporate/investors/financial-reports/
ETHICS AND Stellantis-NV-20221231-Annual-Report.pdf
COMPLIANCE GOVERNANCE
Board
of Directors
Audit Committee
ESG Committee
Leadership
CEO / Strategy Council /
Other key committees
Ethics and Compliance Committee /
Technical Compliance Committee
Chief Audit and Compliance Officer
& Compliance Staff
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
GRI 2-9 GRI 2-10 GRI 2-17
5.1.4.1 The Composition of the Board of Directors
GRI 205-2
Stellantis has a one-tier Board of Directors that includes executive and non-executive directors. According to Dutch Law
Read more
and article 20.2 of Stellantis’ Articles of Association the chairperson of the Board of Directors shall be independent and have
https://www.stellantis.com/en/company/
the title of Senior Independent Director. The Board of Directors is composed of eleven members: two executive members governance/board-of-directors
and nine non-executive members, including the Senior Independent Director. The executive members received by the
Board the titles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer respectively. Six non-executive members qualify as independent
for purposes of NYSE rules, Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) and the
55%
Dutch Corporate Governance Code. The Board of Directors, as a whole, is responsible for the strategy of the Company.
It is the responsibility of the non-executive Directors to oversee the policies carried out by the executive Directors and of the members of the
Board are independent
the general affairs of the Company. Following their appointment, Directors participated in induction sessions designed
to provide them with adequate knowledge of the sector in which the Company operates. These sessions were led by
management teams and included the following topics: 47% 31%
■ auto OEM business overview with a focus on geographic presence, corporate footprint, R&D methodologies and applications 55-64 Years 65-75 Years
■ new product development process including solutions to reduce vehicles CO 2 emissions, notably through electrification,
in line with the climate change challenge
22%
■ technological challenges, including software developments driving innovation in the industry and customer experience
35-54 Years
■ auto OEM strategy plans, new emerging players and disruptive innovation and business models.
As part of the process relating to the Board activities, in 2022 the management continued to provide regular updates on
27%
the topics treated during the induction sessions.
of the members of the
Diversity is one of Stellantis’ core values and members of the Board and its committees are selected on the basis of Board are women
professional and personal qualifications, as well as diversity factors that include age, gender, expertise, work and personal
background and nationality. We aim to achieve, with an overriding emphasis on merit, a Board composition with: (a)
Average Board
women occupying at least 40% of the seats of the Board; as soon as the resolutions taken by shareholders in the context
membership
of the merger will expire and the renewal of seven members out of eleven of the Board of Directors will become feasible
2.2
(b) members whose nationality is reasonably consistent with the geographic footprint of Stellantis’ business in such
manner that no nationality shall account for more than 60% of the members of the Board of Directors; and (c) one or more
members of the Board of Directors will be under 50 years of age on the day of their nomination.
Board Member Skills Relating to Economic, Environmental and Social Impacts GRI 2-17
The Board comprises diversified profiles in terms of gender, work, personal background and nationality. Members of the
Board of Directors are selected on the basis of professional and personal qualifications in a manner designed to ensure
sufficiently diverse and complementary skills to enable these members to oversee the Company’s strategy.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
The skills of the members of the Board relate to either specific operational experiences or performance as responsible for
oversight over major challenges at other corporations where the directors also serve as members of the board. The skills
are summarized in the following matrix:
DIVERSITY NEW CORPORATE FINANCIAL
CLIMATE RISK CYBER BOARD & HUMAN BUSINESS INDUSTRY* SOCIAL GOVERNANCE AND
CHANGE MANAGEMENT SECURITY MEMBERSHIPS
RIGHTS MODEL RESPONSIBILITY ACCOUNTING
John Elkann 3
Carlos Tavares 1
Robert Peugeot 4
Henri de Castries 4
Andrea Agnelli 4
Fiona Clare Cicconi 0
Nicolas Dufourcq 4
Ann Frances
1 Godbehere
Wan Ling Martello 3
Jacques
0
de Saint-Exupéry
Kevin Scott 0
* Industry: the Automobiles industry is under the Consumer Discretionary sector according to GICS Level 1 sector classification.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
5.1.4.2 Compensation of Directors and Executive Managers GRI 2-18 GRI 2-19 GRI 2-20
Remuneration of the Board of Directors, for both executive and non-executive Directors, is governed by the Remuneration GRI 415-1
Policy, which was approved at the Stellantis Annual General Meeting held on April 15, 2021. It takes into account scenario
analyses as well as the pay differentials within the Company, compensation levels offered in the market, and shareholder
and general societal views on compensation.
The Company follows a pay for performance compensation philosophy at all levels in the organization ensuring that the
compensation strategy is competitive and is structured to attract and retain key staff of the requisite quality.
The principles and rules decided on by the Board of Directors to determine the compensation and benefits granted to
executive directors take into account principles of completeness, balance, consistency and measurement.
The Company periodically benchmarks its executive compensation program and the compensation offered to Directors The Company periodically
against peer companies and monitors compensation levels and trends in the market as well as international standards benchmarks its executive
compensation program
regarding appropriate remuneration. For this reason, non-financial performance indicators are taken into account when
formulating the Company’s compensation structure.
The design of our compensation program ensures that a significant portion of each executive’s overall compensation
is based on the achievement of long-term performance objectives through the Company’s long-term incentive plan, in
the belief that placing significantly more weight on the long-term component is appropriate to align the Directors’ and
corporate officers’ efforts with the Company’s strategy, long-term interests and sustainability.
The Board of Directors is assisted by its Remuneration Committee in reviewing and approving corporate goals and annual
and long-term performance objectives relative to incentive compensation of executive directors, including other members
of the top management team and eligible personnel.
The 2023 annual bonus plan will include the additional ESG metric of reductions in carbon emissions principally through
the growth in production and sales of electric vehicles.
Other employees eligible for the incentive plans shown in the above table may receive incentive compensation based
on the same CSR performance metrics but with different weighting. Individual goals may also include financial and/or
non-financial performance measures.
5.1.4.3 Committees supporting governance of Stellantis GRI 2-9 GRI 2-12 GRI 2-18
The ESG Committee of the Board of Directors
The ESG Committee reviews the Company’s CSR roadmap, achievements and disclosures. In addition, the ESG Committee
periodically assesses the performance of individual directors and reports on this to the Board of Directors.
In 2022, the ESG Committee reviewed the updates of the Company’s policies in relation to Diversity of the Board of
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
Directors, Profile for Non-Executive Directors and Bilateral contacts with shareholders and submitted the related drafts
to the Board for approval.
The ESG Committee members participated in informative sessions led by management teams and designed to provide
them with adequate updates in the fields of the Company transformation through the development of human capital, the
global philanthropy strategy, and global, European and U.S. trends in governance . Read more
https://www.stellantis.com/content/dam/stellantis-
The Stellantis Annual Report provides details of the membership, skills and work of the Company’s Board of Directors and
corporate/group/governance/corporate-regulations/
its committees, together with information on the skills of each of their members, as of December 31, 2022. The Board met Stellantis_ESG_Committee_Charter.pdf
6 times during 2022. The average attendance at the Board meetings as well as the Committee meetings was 100 percent.
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors
The Stellantis Audit Committee is charged with assisting and advising the Board of Directors with respect to the
implementation and effectiveness of the Company’s ethics and compliance program, among other things. In so doing, the
Audit Committee oversees and monitors the quality and completeness of the Company’s compliance policies and practices
with respect to applicable legal and regulatory requirements, as well as with the requirements and objectives of the
Company’s Code of Conduct. The Committee’s review reaches the compliance program as a whole and therefore is global
in nature. The Audit Committee meets with the Company’s management, including finance staff, audit and compliance
staff, and legal staff to discuss, among other things, any significant legal, regulatory, Code of Conduct or other compliance
related matters, arising anywhere in the world, that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business,
Stellantis Audit
financial statements or operations.
Committee Charter
As stated in the related Charter, the function of the Audit Committee shall be to assist and advise the Board of Directors https://www.stellantis.com/content/dam/
and act under authority delegated by the Board of Directors, with respect to among others the Company’s policy on tax stellantis-corporate/group/governance/
corporate-regulations/Stellantis_Audit_
planning adopted by management . Committee_Charter.pdf
Stellantis Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors
Commettee Charter
The Board of Directors is assisted by its Remuneration Committee in reviewing and approving corporate goals and annual https://www.stellantis.com/content/dam/
and long-term performance objectives relative to incentive compensation of executive directors, including other members stellantis-corporate/group/governance/
corporate-regulations/Stellantis_Remuneration_
of the top management team and eligible personnel . Committee_Charter.pdf
The Ethics and Compliance Committee
The Ethics and Compliance Committee oversees all of Stellantis ethics and compliance policies and initiatives, sets targets, 6
reports to the CEO and periodically reports to the Board of Directors through the Audit Committee. The Ethics and
Compliance Committee is chaired by the Chief Human Resources and Transformation Officer. The other members include
Key Leadership Organizations
the General Counsel, the Chief Audit and Compliance Officer and the Chief Legal Officer. The Ethics and Compliance in 2022
Committee met six times in 2022.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
The Committee is responsible for determining the general direction of the Company’s ethics and compliance policies,
based on external factors (new risks, emerging stakeholder expectations, benchmarking and new legislation) as well as
internal considerations (risks identified by the integrated risk assessment that considers data from executive interviews,
as well as data from reported cases in the Whistleblowing Policy Integrity Helpline). The Committee is also responsible for
developing tools necessary to implement the ethics and compliance policies. The Committee also reviews whistleblowing
cases and elevates to the Audit Committee cases of potential significant financial impact, reputational damage, or other
cases that are strategic according to elevation criteria set forth in the charter of the Ethics and Compliance Committee.
In line with the global scope of the Code of Conduct and the compliance policies, the Committee’s directives are usually
global, unless special considerations require jurisdiction-specific attention. For example, the Committee has focused
on compliance with the evolving western sanctions and export controls relating to the Russia-Ukraine conflict as a
jurisdiction-specific instance of its global policy to comply with applicable laws.
The Technical Compliance Committee
The Technical Compliance Committee oversees the Technical Safety and Regulatory Compliance organization's compliance
with laws and regulations relating to vehicle and product safety, emissions, and other issues of a technical nature that
involve regulatory compliance. The delivery of high quality and safe products is one of our overarching objectives, and
integrity drives our detection, investigation and remediation of any issue of a technical nature that may jeopardize the
safety of our customers, the quality of our products, or our compliance with regulatory requirements, including but
not limited to emissions regulations. In addition to technical controls, we employ our whistleblowing channel to gather
information about suspected noncompliance and review specific cases within our Technical Compliance Committee, and
our Always with Integrity communication campaign focuses in significant part on the importance of reporting any safety
and emissions concerns.
Leadership Team
The general authority to represent the Company is vested in the Board of Directors and the CEO acting individually.
On certain key business matters, the CEO is supported by the key governance committees, in particular the Strategy
Council, Business Review and Global Programme and Allocation Committees. These bodies are responsible for executing
the decisions of the CEO and Board of Directors and the day-to-day management of the Company, primarily to the
extent it relates to its operational management, including reviewing the operating performance of the businesses and Stellantis Board Regulations
collaborating on certain operational matters. The CEO and members of key governance committees are expected to have https://www.stellantis.com/content/dam/
exemplary conduct that is consistent with the Code of Conduct, and from time to time lead communications campaigns stellantis-corporate/group/governance/
corporate-regulations/Stellantis_Board_
that help promote the Company’s culture of integrity . Regulations.pdf
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
5.1.5 POLICIES FOR ETHICS IN OUR BUSINESS GRI 2-28 GRI 3-3
The culture of integrity that begins with our governance bodies is based on values that are expressed at all levels and
functions in key charter documents and appropriate policies.
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE MONITORING
The Compliance Committee
Accounting & reviews significant activities
Financial Reporting and initiatives related to
policies, awareness, training,
Intellectual risk assessments and risk
Vehicle Safety & property management
Regulatory*
An assigned business/
Environmental
functional area manages and
Communications
Tax / Social Media develops plans to address
Compliance this risk. The Compliance
Health & Committee is made aware of
Safety Lobbying & political plans and risk management
Insider Trading
contributions
The business/functional area
Data
manages these topics and
Customs Privacy
Whistleblowing line reports to the Compliance
Information & Cyber Security Committee
Anti Money Competition
Laundering Conflicts of Interest Law These topics are managed
Anti-Bribery/Corruption under the responsibility of
Human Rights the business area
Records Management
3rd Party Management
Compliance Culture
Export Controls & Sanctions
CODE OF CONDUCT
Note: All areas may be included in the audit risk
* Managed in the Technical Compliance Commmittee assessment and may be included in the audit plan
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
5.1.5.1 Code of Conduct GRI 2-23 GRI 205-2
Our core values are set forth in the Stellantis Code of Conduct. The Stellantis Code of Conduct was approved by the Our core values
Board of Directors of Stellantis N.V. in March 2021. It applies to the members of the Stellantis Board of Directors, Stellantis’
officers, full-time and part-time employees, temporary and contract workers. Stellantis also expects its stakeholders,
including suppliers, dealers, distributors, and joint venture partners, to act with integrity and in accordance with the Code.
It is the responsibility of all workforce members to report suspected or potential violations of the Code of Conduct.
The Stellantis Code of Conduct focuses on four main areas:
■ the protection of the Stellantis workforce, including a commitment to diversity, fairness, and health and safety, and to
the United Nations declaration on human rights and the International Labor Organization’s declaration on fundamental
principles and rights at work
■ the way that Stellantis conducts business, engaging in sustainable practices that promote vehicle safety, quality, data
privacy and environmental protection, and that comply with other applicable laws and regulations, such as anti-bribery,
anti-money laundering, insider trading and others
■ the interaction of Stellantis’ workforce with external parties, including the avoidance of conflicts of interest and the
support of our communities
■ the protection of Stellantis’ assets and information.
The principles of the Code are applicable globally, and our communications, training, and discipline aim at creating a
uniform culture of integrity wherever Stellantis conducts business.
At Stellantis, we do not allow any retaliation against any person who makes a report in good faith or who cooperates in
an investigation. Interested parties are allowed to report a concern confidentially and anonymously where allowed by law.
Any retaliation is subject to disciplinary action.
The Stellantis Code of Conduct is available under the Governance section on the Company’s website . Code of Conduct
https://www.stellantis.com/en/company/
5.1.5.2 Company’s Compliance Policies governance/code-of-conduct
Stellantis policies provide further details and guidance regarding the principles established in the Code of Conduct. These
include policies on Anti-corruption, Export Controls, Conflicts of Interest,and others. The policies are tailored to the business
of the Company, and emphasize integrity, transparency, compliance with applicable legal or regulatory frameworks, and
establish a foundation for sustainability.
Compliance-related Policies
The Policies are supplemented by Procedures that give detailed guidance on the implementation of the policies. By the
and Procedures
end of 2022, approximately 30 compliance-related Policies and Procedures have been published to supplement the Code,
https://www.stellantis.com/en/company/
Compliance Policies and Procedures are subject to the review and approval of the Ethics and Compliance Committee . governance/corporate-regulations
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
5.1.5.3 The Company’s Tax Policy GRI 2-27 GRI 207-1
The Company’s Tax Policy (the “Tax Policy”) is approved by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and is published Company’s Tax Policy
on the Company’s website . https://www.stellantis.com/content/dam/
stellantis-corporate/group/governance/
The Vice President of Tax is responsible for centralized coordination and management of the Tax Policy and for ensuring corporate-regulations/Stellantis_Tax_
Policy_2021.pdf
that the Company complies with all fiscal obligations for administering and paying all applicable taxes.
These responsibilities are achieved through a dedicated Company tax structure of Regional Heads and Sector Heads of
Tax who manage all tax-related matters at the Company level and within each of the Business Operating segments and
Service companies, which are clearly defined and regularly updated. The Tax Policy is approved by the Audit Committee
of the Board of Directors, and is implemented under the direction of the Chief Financial Officer. The Tax Policy and
supporting policies have been adopted to ensure that Tax Compliance, Tax Planning and Tax Risks are effectively and
consistently managed at the Regional, Sector and Company levels. The Tax Policy is guided by the primary consideration
that all material tax positions taken by the Company must comply with applicable laws and regulations and with the core
principles that define the Company’s relationships with its main stakeholders and govern how it conducts its business
activities.
The Company’s policy is to pay taxes legally due in countries within the course of its industrial or commercial activities,
without artificial arrangements that shift value to low-tax jurisdictions. Under the same policy, cross-border transactions
are conducted on an arms-length basis in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, including OECD Guidelines
where applicable. Secrecy jurisdictions or so-called ‘tax havens’ are not to be used for the avoidance of tax.
The Company’s annual tax disclosures are included within the financial statements and accompanying footnotes available
on the Company’s website.
5.1.5.4 The Company’s Public Affairs policy GRI 415-1
Responsible Public Affairs Practices
Stellantis Public Affairs practices adhere to the UN Global Compact recommendations toward responsible contributions
to public debate. Our relationship with governments is respectful, proactive and transparent. In line with Stellantis
CSR commitments, the Company takes part in public debate on a wide range of issues, including those related to the
automotive industry, ecology and the environment, transportation and mobility, data protection, road safety, regional
development and international trade.
Public Affairs Organization We monitor applicable legislation and regulations, and we bring our expertise to the
development of regulations and standards that are responsive to the needs of our customers, communities and other
stakeholders.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
In order to regulate its practices and make them clear to external contacts, Stellantis has adopted a specific charter Read more
for relations with public institutions. Furthermore, the Company has determined a specific delegation of authority https://www.stellantis.com/content/dam/
stellantis-corporate/group/governance/
applicable to Public Affairs to determine (1) how Corporate positions are defined and (2) which Professional Memberships
code-of-conduct/Stellantis-Group-Public-
Stellantis adheres to. The senior leaders of all regions have received a training on both documents and are responsible to Affairs-Charter-Procedure-EN.pdf
inform their team accordingly. Both the charter and the delegation of authority apply to Stellantis employees who interact
with public authorities (governments, parliaments, administrations, local authorities, etc.). They are to carry out their
activity with probity and integrity, following the principles outlined in the charter and summarized below:
■ Control of practices: Per Stellantis delegation of authority, new positions taken on the most significant topics are
approved by the CEO and debated in the Strategy Council. Moreover, Stellantis’ positions on public issues are aligned
with Dare Forward 2030. The Public Affairs Department is placed under the authority of the General Counsel who
reports directly to the CEO. As outlined in section 2.4 related to “climate governance”, all senior executives have For more information refer to 2.4
incentive plans based on the CO performances of the Company, hence, the public positions taken by Stellantis are
2
aligned with the climate change ambition of the Company. At an operational level, the managers in the Public Affairs
Department are tasked with upholding the Stellantis Code of Conduct and the Charter with Public Institutions and to
ensure that their teams do as well. New members of the Public Affairs Department are trained on the governance of
Public Affairs and the corporate policies that apply to Public Affairs. Incentive plans for the Public Affairs Department
include, as part of their goals, meeting the Company strategic plan which cite Stellantis’ environmental objectives.
The Public Affairs Department may be audited by the Internal Audit Department which acts independently.
Stellantis’ audit plan is based on a risk assessment process and is updated at regular intervals throughout the year.
If, pursuant to the risks assessment, they were identified as being risky, they would be added to the audit plan.
Read more
■ Transparency: For each CSR macro risk, the Company outlines its public position in the CSR report. Contributions to public https://lda.senate.gov/system/public
debates are in line with the described position, taking into account the local context. In order to ensure transparency
in its dealing with public authorities, the Company complies with the international rules governing influential practices.
Transparency register in theEU
Stellantis reports as required by law the activities and interactions between Stellantis and authorities and complies with
https://ec.europa.eu/transparencyregister/
the obligation of disclosure in the relevant registers of interest. For instance, in the U.S., federal lobbying is regulated by public/consultation/displaylobbyist.
do?id=986044541551-20
the U.S. Congress. Stellantis files quarterly reports that disclose spending on relevant activities and the specific topics
addressed in interactions with particular public officials . Similarly, we register in the transparency register in the EU, Transparency register in France
https://www.hatvp.fr/fiche-organisation/
in France and in Germany .
?organisation=879786085
■ Political neutrality: Stellantis applies a policy of political neutrality; it does not make financial contributions to political Transparency register in Germany
parties or political candidates, in conformance with the Code of Conduct and the Charter for relations with Public
https://www.lobbyregister.bundestag.de/
Institutions. informationen-und-hilfe/information-in-
english-876238
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
5.1.6 ALLOCATED RESOURCES TO ACHIEVE OUR ETHICAL OBJECTIVES GRI 3-3 GRI 205-1
Stellantis has allocated human and economic resources to maximize the attainment of its ethical objectives. Currently
approximately 300 persons work within the Audit and Compliance organization, out of which more than 40 are devoted
to Compliance. There are audit leads for each Stellantis business region, and auditors and investigators in major cities
where Stellantis has a presence. There is one Compliance lead for the Americas, and another for ROW (all other regions),
with some shared global responsibilities between the two. The Chief Audit and Compliance Officer has a budget designed
to allow the organization to meet its objectives, which is reviewed and approved by the Ethics and Compliance Committee
after careful deliberation. The Audit and Compliance budget is approximately €42 million in 2022. The ethics and compliance
objectives include a focus on the Code of Conduct, the Integrity Helpline, Conflicts of Interest, Anti-Bribery/Corruption,
Gifts and Entertainment, Risk Management; Third Party Management; Compliance Culture/Training; Protecting Assets,
Charitable Giving, Export and Trade Regulations and others.
AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE ORGANIZATION
Audit & Compliance
Chief Audit and Compliance Officer
Enlarged Enlarged Risk
India + Asia
North America Europe Audit Europe Audit South America MEA Audit China Audit Management,
Pacific Audit
Audit Financial & Industrial & Audit (interim) Security and
Functions Commercial Insurance
Enlarged Europe
Global Training
America’s / MEA / China /
/ Communication
Asia Pacific
Compliance
Compliance
Compliance
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
Every year, Stellantis’ memberships worldwide for the following year are reviewed and formally approved by the relevant
EVP. As such, the General Counsel, with oversight over Stellantis Public Affairs, reviewed and approved the Public Affairs’
spending of the Company. In 2022, the Company consolidated its global budget for public affairs activities for the first
time, yielding a budget of €10,66 million. This amount represents both the amount spent internally as well as the amount
spent in Auto Associations and is detailed per region in the table below:
Contribution in million € Internal Auto Associations Total
Enlarged Europe 2022 1.38 2.47 3.85
North America 2022 2.07* 3.4 5.47
South America 2022 0.23 0.8 0.99
Asia 2022 0 0.3 0.25
Middle East & Africa 2022 0 0 0.00
China 2022 0 0.01
2022 3.68 6.9 10.58
Total
2021 2.9 2.2 5.1**
* In the U.S., federal lobbying costs are reported based on the definitions included in the lobbying and tax laws. Lobbying costs are not reported in
Canada and Mexico.
** The 2021 amounts are the result of a different calculation methodology and are not directly comparable.
In order to ensure consistency of reported amount on a worldwide basis, in 2022, Stellantis is reporting expenditures
related to these activities on a global basis where a public affairs team is present. In 2021, the amount spent were using
different allocations, for instance only 25% of the association’s costs were included in the EU budget and is therefore not
directly comparable with 2022.
The internal spending includes
■ labor costs (including General and administrative costs) for hours spent (100%)
■ amount paid to third party firms (100%), and
■ travel, meals, and other expenses incurred (100%).
Our corporate policy does not allow financial contributions to political parties and prohibits financial relations with officials,
therefore is no such amount reported in the resources spend on public affairs activities.
The Automotive Associations amounts are the amount (spent in membership fees in 2022). We elected to focus on
the Auto Associations memberships, as these are the main external conduit through which Stellantis undertakes
activities that could be considered as lobbying. Note, that Stellantis is a member of other associations for a variety of
purposes, including information gathering or negotiations with unions; those associations may undertake activities
considered as well.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
5.1.7 INITIATIVES AND ACHIEVEMENTS IN THE PURSUIT OF ETHICAL EXCELLENCE
GRI 205-1
The Company has launched, and will continue to launch, various initiatives designed to continue developing its ethical
culture. Some notable initiatives in 2022 include the following:
Audits
Internal Audit and Compliance Department includes regulatory compliance and the Ethics and Compliance Program within Robust Ethics and Compliance
Auditing and Training
the scope of its annual audit plan. Pursuant to the department’s procedures for the selections of topics for internal audits,
the department may choose to review adherence to policies dealing with competition, anti-corruption, data privacy,
export controls and other compliance-related topics.
At appropriate times, the Company selects external parties to conduct audits of specific functions. External Audits
performed by independent auditors include topics such as Integrity Helpline, emissions-related regulatory compliance,
environmental health and safety, and energy management systems. The Integrity Helpline and compliance with
emissions regulations as well as applicable agreements with certain governing agencies are audited by those
governmental agencies, while environmental health and safety, and energy management systems are audited by an
accredited ISO Certification body.
As mentioned above in section 5.1.3 , the Company also conducts a Compliance Assessment to ensure that the Ethics For more information refer to 5.1.3
and Compliance Program identifies compliance risks, takes proper steps to mitigate such risks, and does so in an efficient
manner. This process includes information from various internal sources, but also incorporates benchmarking from
organizations devoted to corporate ethics, such as Ethisphere . Stellantis Audit Committee Charter
https://www.stellantis.com/content/dam/
Communications and Trainings stellantis-corporate/group/governance/
corporate-regulations/Stellantis_Audit_
In 2021 the Company set out to build an ethical culture for the new Stellantis, emphasizing messages from the CEO and Committee_Charter.pdf
senior leaders about the Code of Conduct and Integrity Helpline. In 2022, the Company continued the Code of Conduct,
the anti-corruption and Data privacy trainings started in 2021.
Ethics and compliance e-learnings
Number of Number of % of employees trained
Areas
hours Employee trained vs target
Code of Conduct (2021- 2022) 51,827 77,353 90%
Anti-corruption (2021-2022) 22,078 29,437 99%
Data privacy (2021- 2022) 33,506 79,777 93%
Total 107,411
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
In 2022, the Company focused on enhancing the workforce’s awareness and knowledge of its policies and procedures, ETHICAL LEDERSHIP
through the roll-out of awareness initiatives such as the Virtual T-shirts program (where compliance topics appear in PRINCIPLES
virtual t-shirts) and the Always With Integrity video series by senior leaders.
In the second part of the year, the Company launched the Ethical Culture Survey, the first step of the new Ethics Experience
ACT
initiative aimed to engage the workforce around ethics and compliance. According to the results of the survey, 95% of
Be an example
respondents believed the Code of Conduct was easy to understand and relevant, and that the Company is living the
for the Team
principles established in the Code of Conduct. By December 2022, 77,353 people had been trained, comprising 90 percent
of the active white collars employees at the end of the year.
The Company also launched an anti-corruption e-learning training in late 2021 and at the end of September 2022, 29,438
employees had completed the course.
SPEAK UP
In 2022, Stellantis proposed corporate trainings to managers to prevent Fraud and classrooms (The Ethical Leadership
Promote ethical standards
Engagement Program) to create an ethical and transparent environment. These classrooms were launched in Q3 is in business life
targeted to middle managers of which 8,308 were trained in 2022.
White collar employees were also trained trough e-learning to understand why reporting is essential for the Company
and how to lift the barriers of reporting and to overcome them.
LISTEN
2022 Ethics and compliance training initiatives
Encourage open door
In 2022 Number of Number of % of the communications
hours employee trained targeted employee
Phishing
18,246 72,984 94%
(completed)
Fraud prevention e-learning
40,062 40,062 82%
(for Managers only) in progress REACT
Ethical leadership classroom
6,231 8,308 62% Take appropriate
(for Managers only) in progress
actions
Speak-up! Give your voice to concerns
16,916 50,748 85%
(for white collars only) in progress
Total 81,455
Enhancements to the Integrity Helpline
The Stellantis’ Whistleblowing Policy Integrity Helpline, known as the Integrity Helpline, is a global tool to register
concerns, disclose conflicts of interest or to request advice about Company policies, anonymously if so desired by the
reporter and if permitted by law. In 2022, the Integrity Helpline developed special modules for the reporting of gifts and
entertainment expense. The Stellantis Integrity Helpline is available 24/7 by phone or web and is designed to ensure
that any suspected violations of our Code of Conduct can be reported, received, and resolved properly and efficiently.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
Our “Always with Integrity” campaign highlights the availability of the reporting system for all types of concerns, including Read more
vehicle safety and regulatory concerns. This system continues to be provided by a specialized independent service https://www.stellantis.com/en/company/governance/
how-to-report-a-violation-of-the-code-of-conduct
provider and used for reporting investigations by trained and skilled resources. It is open to workforce members, business
partners and other stakeholders and is accessible on Stellantis’ website . As in 2021, workforce members have the ability Any doubts on
to raise questions about the Code of Conduct or reports of potential violations to their direct supervisors and the Human Code of Conduct violations?
Resources, Compliance, and Legal Departments.
Integrity Helpline case resolution process SPEAK TO
For all reports received of alleged violations to the Code of Conduct, a preliminary assessment of the allegation is
Direct Human
performed by the Integrity Helpline Regional Delegate, who assigns a priority to the case based on specific criteria.
Supervisor Resources
A personalized response is provided to the reporter and if necessary a request for further information. The case is
Compliance Legal
then assigned to a specific team of trained and specialized investigators. Upon completion of the investigation an
Department Department
outcome of Confirmed; Not Confirmed; Not Confirmed with Issue is assigned to the case and any potential action
plans to be implemented are proposed by management. The Stellantis Regional Ethics and Compliance Committees
(ECC) are periodically presented with the proposed final case disposition and remediation actions, for approval.
REPORT TO
Only cases meeting specific escalation criteria are reported to the Global ECC and subsequently to the Audit Committee.
THE INTEGRITY HELPLINE
Final feedback is provided to the reporter.
www.integrityhelpline.stellantis.com
PROCESS FLOW FOR ALLEGATIONS OF NON-COMPLIANCE
Whistleblowing Integrity Helpline Internal Audit and Compliance
Web/Telephone Archived
NO
INTEGRITY HELPLINE
Ethics Point Is the Ranking Update to
Email/phone Incident Protocol Preliminary Whistleblowing attribution Investigation the case info Reporting
Management number Evaluation Case detailed to relevant on IH
open door system department
hard copy
YES
Analyzed
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
In 2022 there was an overall increase in cases with respect to the previous year. The trend of received cases was
notably impacted by the new Stellantis Integrity Helpline system launched in November 2021, that was supported
by Communication and Training initiatives which continued throughout 2022 and ensured a significant increase of
awareness.
Number of allegations received % of allegations received
2022 1,413 76%
Protecting our workforce
2021 1,077 71%
2022 68 4%
Conducting business
2021 36 2%
2022 67 4%
Interacting with external parties
2021 60 4%
2022 314 17%
Managing our assets and information
2021 351 23%
2022 1,862 100%
Total
2021 1,524 100%
Sanctions and Export Controls
The 2022 Russia/Ukraine conflict required the Company to devote special attention to the controls designed to ensure
regulatory compliance with economic sanctions and export controls (“Sanctions”). In addition to ad-hoc informational
flows to ensure awareness of Sanctions and avoid unintentional violations, in 2022 the Company audited its Sanctions
vetting program and expanded the application of its vetting protocols with a new service provider to include vetting of
its business partners that identifies when a business partner is owned in greater than 50% by a person or entity that is
blocked pursuant to Sanctions.
Third Party Due Diligence
In January of 2022 the Company published its Third Party Due Diligence Policy and concluded its basic harmonization
of the due diligence processes of Groupe PSA and FCA N.V. into a single process for Stellantis. A detailed Procedure
was published internally in May. The Third Party Due Diligence program is conducted with a specialized external
service provider and selects business partners for due diligence on the basis of risk criteria that are described in
the Procedure. Those criteria include corruption perception for the jurisdiction, financial exposure, and nature of
business conducted with the business partner. Due diligence reports of various levels of depth are obtained for
selected business partners depending on the level of overall risk identified. Once a business partner is in the due
diligence system, continuous monitoring tools (operating 24/7) will search an extensive data lake of information
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
sources for any risk-related information related to that business partner, resulting in relevant alerts for Stellantis. Dealers and top suppliers included in
The due diligence information is made available to management for the purposes of determining whether to do the first launch of the new process
business, or to continue doing business, with the parties that are the subject of due diligence. The first launch of
1,000
the new process occured in the second half of 2022, and included due diligence on approximately 500 dealers in
high-risk jurisdictions, and 500 suppliers that represent approximately 80% of the Company’s annual spend.
5.1.8 DETAILED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
The following table sets out in full the automotive associations to whom we adhered in 2022
FUNCTION FUNCTION
COUNTRY ASSOCIATION COUNTRY ASSOCIATION
OR REGION OR REGION
China CATARC (China Automotive Technology and Research ENLARGED France EUCAR - European Council for Automotive Research and
CHINA
Center) EUROPE Development
ENLARGED UK SMMT (Society of Motors Manufacturers & Traders) Serbia Serbian Association of Importers of Vehicles and Parts
EUROPE
Belgium ACEA (European Automobile Manufacturers Association) Switzerland UPSA (Union des Professionnels suisse de l'Automobile)
France PFA Plateform Automobile, CCFA (Comité des Constructeurs Belgium FEBIAC (ACEA) (Fédération Belge de l'Automobile & du
Français Automobiles) Cycle)
Germany Verband der Automobilindustrie e. V. (VDA), 10117 Berlin Germany VDA - GTB Umlage
Germany NAFEMS (National Agency for Finite Element Methods and Germany Stifterverband für die deutsche Wirtschaft / VDA - Umlage
Standards)
für Stifterverband (Belegschaftsumlage)
Spain ANFAC (Asociación Española de Fabricantes de Automóviles
y Camiones) France ASTE (Association pour le développement des Sciences et
Techniques de l’Environnement)
Italy ANFIA (Associazione Nazionale Filiera Industria
Automobilistica) Hungary MAGE (Magyar Gépjárműipari Egyesület)
Germany VDIK (Verband der Internationalen Kraftfahrzeughersteller) France CNPA (Conseil National des Professions de l'Automobile)
France AUTOSAR (AUTomotive Open System ARchitecture) France ECF (European Caravan Federation)
Spain ANFAC - Asociación Española de Fabricantes de Germany VDA - IW-Umweltinstitut
Automóviles y Camiones
Portugal ARAC (Associação dos Industriais de Aluguer de
Serbia Association of Motor Vehicle Manufacturers of Serbia Automóveis sem Condutor)
France GALIA France Fondation VEDECOM (ex-Moveo)
Portugal ACAP - Associação Automóvel de Portugal Germany VDA - Logistik-Umlage
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
FUNCTION FUNCTION
COUNTRY ASSOCIATION COUNTRY ASSOCIATION
OR REGION OR REGION
ENLARGED France 5GAA (5G Automobile Association) MIDDLE EAST Turkey ODD - Turkish association of car manufacturers and
EUROPE & AFRICA automotive suppliers
France CHADEMO
Portugal ACAP (Associação Automóvel de Portugal) NORTH AMERICA Mexico AMIA (Asociación Mexicana de la Industria Automotriz)
Germany VDA - Jahresumlage Finanzierung Fachbereich Aftersales U.S. CCC (Car Connectivity Consortium)
France ERTRAC (European Road Transport Advisory Council) U.S. Alliance Automotive Innovation
France H2 Mobilité France U.S. American Automotive Policy Council
France SIA (Société des Ingénieurs de l'Automobile) - Cotisation Canada Canadian Vehicle Manufacturers Association
Belgium Informex SA U.S. Automotive Coalition for Traffic Safety, Inc. (ACTS)
Germany WVM (WirtschaftsVereinigung Metalle) U.S. CalETC (California Electric Transportation Coalition)
Ukraine EBA (European Business Association) U.S. Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG)
Germany VDA - Schülerlotsendienst Canada North American Fleet Association (NAFA)
France ETSI - Cotisations SOUTH AMERICA Brazil ANFAVEA (Associação Nacional de Fabricantes de Veículos
Automotores)
France AFNOR Elec
Brazil ABRACAF (Associação Brasileira dos Concessionários de
France CharIN (Charging Interface Initiative) Automóveis Fiat)
Greece AMVIR (ΣΕΑΑ – Σύνδεσμος Εισαγωγέων Αντιπροσώπων Brazil ABRADIC (Associação Brasileira dos Distribuidores Chrysler)
Αυτοκινήτων)
Brazil AEB (Associação de Comércio Exterior do Brasil)
France AVERE (Association nationale pour le développement de la
Brazil AER (Associação das Empresas usuárias de RECOF)
mobilité électrique)
Germany VDA Referat "Historische Fahrzeuge", Berlin Argentina ADEFA (Asociación de Fabricantes de Automotores)
Germany House of Energy Chili ANAC (Asociación Nacional Automotriz de Chile)
Spain GANVAM/GVVM/FEDEME Argentina AEA (Associación Empresaria Argentina)
INDIA & ASIA Japan Japan Automobile Importers Association (JAIA)
PACIFIC
Japan Mikawa Port Promotion Association
Japan Aichi Automobiles Promotion Association
Japan Japan Auto Appraisal Institute
Malaysia Malaysia Automotive Association
India SIAM/ARAI (Association of Indian Manufacturers)
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
5.2 Responsible management of personal information
5.2.1 CONTEXT AND STELLANTIS POSITION
GRI 3-3
CSR issue/challenge #12: Responsible management of personal information
12 Responsible management of personal
Given today’s ever-expanding connectivity and digitalization of activities, a lot of personal information is processed, e.g. information
online services, online shopping, social media, Internet of Things (IoT). Internet users who are not well–versed in the legal
issues surrounding the privacy of information are becoming increasingly wary. This leads more and more regulators all
over the world to define privacy regulations in order to protect fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons
concerning their personal information. The European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR ), which entered GDPR General Data Protection
into force on May 25, 2018, is one of the first and most complete regulation, but other countries define their own local Regulation official text
regulation (e.g. California Consumer Privacy Act, LGPD Brazilian data protection law). https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/
PDF/?uri=CELEX:32016R0679&from=EN
The challenges for companies consist of implementing all due processes fulfilling related regulations such as the European
General Data Protection Regulation and others, especially by providing customers’ clear and transparent information.
Stellantis aims to maintain a relationship founded on trust by working to ensure that personal data is kept confidential
and only processed for valid purposes. Because the trust of our customers, employees and other concerned data subjects
is fundamental, we take actions to adhere to data protection rules.
For Stellantis, the collection and processing of personal data is essential to bring customers the benefits from innovative
services and products, these processes are intended to ensure full compliance with data privacy regulations.
The Company is committed to the legitimate protection of consumer information and striving to ensure safety and security
of data. These activities also support the Company’s performance.
Company transformation through the software strategy
On Software Day December 7, 2021, Stellantis mapped out its software strategy to deploy next-generation tech platforms,
building on existing connected vehicle capabilities to transform how customers interact with their vehicles.
This transformation will move Stellantis’ vehicles from today’s dedicated electronic architectures to an open software-
defined platform that seamlessly integrates with customers’ digital lives. This platform is designed to greatly expand the
options offered to customers who can add, with their consent, innovative features and services via regular over-the-air
(OTA) updates keeping vehicles fresh, exciting and updated years after they have been built.
Company’s public position
We commit to protecting customers’ and employees' personal data, and more globally personal data of all categories
of data subjects. Mostly based on the European Data Protection Regulation and of corresponding regulations in other
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
jurisdictions, we respect the privacy requirements of customers’ personal data for both current customers that use The Company has already
products and services, and prospective customers where data is obtained via Stellantis websites, apps, in the network committed to the essential
or in-vehicle systems. We work to ensure that they are used appropriately while maintaining the principles relating to principles of GDPR
processing personal data such as lawfulness, fairness, transparency, data minimization, storage and purpose limitation, “Privacy by Design” and
integrity and confidentiality. We implement processes to respect customers’ preferred contact methods to ensure that “Privacy by Default”
each customer has control over his personal data shared with our Company.
The protection of personal data is considered a fundamental right for customers and it is an important factor of confidence
and loyalty contributing towards satisfaction.
The Company through its participation in the discussions led by local and European bodies such as CCFA (Comité des
Constructeurs Automobiles Français), VDA (Verband der Automobilindustrie) and Unione Industriale Association (Italy),
works with the European authorities to shape how the GDPR is applied to vehicle manufacturers’ activities as well as to
share a common understanding of privacy regulations related to new technologies applied to connected vehicles.
The Company has already committed to the essential principles of GDPR “Privacy by Design” and “Privacy by Default” and
is consistently improving the security of its data storage and exchange networks, especially with the connected car that
has transformed vehicle manufacturers into experienced players on the subject of data protection. It carries out training
and awareness-raising actions within the Company and takes part in working groups among professionals to foster the
exchange of best practices. It consistently monitors the fulfillment of privacy regulations and works to take appropriate
action when potential issues are identified.
5.2.2 FORWARD-LOOKING VISION AND TARGETS GRI 3-3
Commitment scoreboard
CSR ISSUE/
CHALLENGE
VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT RESULTS
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term 2022 2021
(End of Strategic Plan)
12 Responsible Protect personal data by % of complaints raised by 2022: 100% 2030: 100% 2040: 100% 100% 100%
management processing information Supervisory Authorities
of personal confidentially and from customer privacy/
information according to applicable data protection
Owner: General data protection infringements
Counsel regulations handled within 1 month
(and/or due date required
by the Authorities)
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
5.2.3 IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES GRI 3-3
Privacy being now considered and understood as part of the fundamental rights and freedoms of persons, protection
of personal data by Stellantis is taken into account at the earliest stage possible in our activities to avoid risks for data
subjects and risks for the Company in terms of compliance with privacy regulations, reputation and operational efficiency.
Of course, our first priority is to avoid risks for data subjects themselves when we process personal information of our
customers, employees and other concerned data subjects.
5.2.3.1 Risks
The Company is managing three main categories of risks in this area:
■ Non-compliance with existing and future regulations, that may lead to fines (e.g. up to 4% of annual turnover for
European GDPR): Risks of non-compliance are mainly addressed by the privacy governance within the Company , For more information refer to 5.2.4
but are also addressed through the training on privacy topics of our employees and by the management of our suppliers
and partners with regards to privacy topics
■ Reputational risks, that may lead to a deterioration of our image and impact on sales: Risks of reputation are addressed
by providing transparent and clear information to data subjects (e.g. customers, employees) and by providing them with
easy access to their personal information For more information refer to 5.2.7
■ Risks related to operational efficiency, that may lead to redevelop existing non-compliant products and service:
Risks due to inefficient internal processes, in terms of personal data protection, may concern various activities of the
Company, such as:
● development of our products or services: the risks to develop non-compliant product or services (e.g. vehicles or
other means of mobility’s development and more generally all necessary IT development we need for our activity)
with regards to privacy regulations are addressed by a strong deployment of our “Privacy by Design” methodologies,
aims to include the privacy requirements to enable products and services) to fulfil privacy regulations in internal
projects methods
● Risks related to security vulnerabilities that could generate cyber-attacks or data breaches: they are addressed to
handle them by operational procedures and by the global IT and cybersecurity monitoring of the Company.
5.2.3.2 Opportunities
The Company’s expertise in addressing and mitigating these risks opens opportunities:
■ Implementing “Privacy by Design” methods and having cybersecurity standards help the Company to develop and to
commercialize new products and services in a responsible way
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
■ Working to being recognized as a Company that takes care of personal information of its customers and employees
allows to maintain the confidence in our Company of our customers and partners for our products and services.
This may notably support:
● our business development by increasing the number and the quality of the marketing leads
● the improvement of our products and services and to develop new ones thanks to the data and feedbacks our
customers accept to give us.
5.2.4 GOVERNANCE AND DECISION BODIES TO LEAD ACTIONS GRI 3-3
The Stellantis Global Cybersecurity and Privacy Committee was established in 2021 to govern and monitor cybersecurity and
privacy risks in our ICT systems, products and services. It is co-chaired by the Chief Human Resources and Transformation
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer and it steers the cybersecurity and privacy programs for Stellantis.
As part of the Global Ethics and Compliance Program, the Stellantis N.V. Data Protection Officer (DPO) is the General
Counsel of Stellantis, reporting to the Chief Executive Officer.
As of September 1, 2022 a Privacy Office was established and the activities were organized by areas of responsibility at
global level for providing data privacy support:
■ Customer and ICT processes (including digital marketing, web sites, data analytic, data lake, software initiatives);
■ Product Development processes (including, autonomous driving, connectivity, artificial intelligence);
■ HR processes.
At regional and business level, responsibility for providing data privacy support is assigned for each Regions as follow:
Enlarged Europe to the Head of Stellantis Privacy Office above mentioned. For the other Regions (North America, South
America, India Asia Pacific/China, Middle East and Africa) and for Businesses (Maserati, COMAU) to the respective General
Counsel, in each case with the support of the Regional Privacy Teams comprised of representatives of Legal and ICT.
The Company’s DPO is responsible to:
■ monitor and promote the data privacy compliance
■ define and provide guidance to the organization on requirements of relevant data privacy regulations
■ monitor compliance with the rules of personal data protection
■ inform, advise and issue recommendations
■ establish the respective data protection culture
■ cooperate with the respective responsible Supervisory Authorities on issues related to the processing of personal data.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
Two networks of in-house representatives back up the Company’s DPO:
■ for business divisions: the compliance champions For more information refer to 5.1.4.1
■ for European National Sales Companies: several managers within Stellantis ensure integration by design for the
protection of personal data and compliance when processing the affected activities, even when working with external
subcontractors or services. Each employee is involved in respecting the Company’s data protection policies.
5.2.5 POLICIES TO EXECUTE THE STRATEGY GRI 3-3
Stellantis sets up the proper governance and control structures, methods and procedures, regarding the protection of
personal data by:
■ giving transparent information to customers, employees and other data subject
■ improving the efficiency of consent management
■ helping data subjects to exercise their rights regarding their personal data
■ implementing “Privacy by Design/by Default” principles during projects
■ improving the security of our data storage and networks
■ monitoring potential security breaches and applying data breaches procedures
■ ensuring the same level of data protection from our subcontractors
■ raising awareness or training the managers and the employees
■ monitoring and periodically auditing the organization
■ maintaining close and confident relationships with Data Protection Authorities.
5.2.6 ORGANIZATION AND RESOURCES GRI 3-3
In order to ensure the implementation of data privacy policies along with decisions taken by the Company, notably we
have set up the following organization to respect the essential principles of “Privacy by Design” and “Privacy by Default”:
■ consistently improving the security of its data storage and exchange by the IT department
■ working to adapt developments methods for IT, Sales and Marketing, Mobility services, and for Engineering
■ providing privacy trainings for project managers, engineering teams (to comply with the “Privacy by Design” principle
for vehicles and connected services) and frontlines (e.g., vendors in the dealership)
■ all the employees in charge for processing the data received the necessary operational instructions
■ operating a strong information system security policy
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
■ monitoring of system performance or service disruptions: the digitization of a large part of our relationship with our The Internal Audit regularly
customers, notably now including online sales and payments makes it crucial that access to network, IT systems and audits the organization
data is assured at all times
■ contingency plans, to ensure business continuity in case of technical failure, human error, malicious attacks, weather
events, natural disasters or terrorist attacks.
In addition, every department and concerned legal entity shall keep updated its legally required records of processing
activities. The Internal Audit regularuly audits the organization. In 2022, two audits on data privacy were conducted:
Connected Vehicles Data Privacy review in Q2 (perimeter: vehicles sales in Enlarged Europe, North America and South
America) and Customer Experience survey Audit and Data Privacy Historical Data Management
Periodically, privacy self-assessments are proposed to specific business entities to improve the awareness of managers
and to measure the level of GDPR maturity. Based on the findings of Internal Audits, the results and verbatim of the
annual self-assessment, and the achievement of improvement action plans, Stellantis DPO can identify the needs in
further enhancements for the internal privacy training, templates of privacy notices, templates of privacy agreements in
contracts (Data Processing Agreement).
The Company participates actively in discussions led by local and European bodies such as VDA (Verband der
Automobilindustrie), Unione Industriale Association (Italy), sharing best practices to comply with privacy regulations relating
to new technologies applied to the automotive sector, in particular with the increasing relevance of connected vehicles.
5.2.7 MAIN INITIATIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND RESULTS GRI 3-3 GRI 418
In order to provide transparent information to customers, periodic update of all privacy statements were carried out
along with consistent improvement of information provided to customers about the different purpose of use and the
processing of their personal data in the vehicle.
Moreover, the Company has implemented – and continues to implement – several measures, such as:
■ improve the communication with our customer in relation to their questions and requests. In particular the procedure
relating to the data subject rights is constantly updated in an effort to comply with the more recent data protection
authorities guidelines
■ aim at improving the efficiency of consent management. During 2022, the Company checked privacy statements to detect
non-compliant consent issues, also leveraging on the design and implementation of a central tool for consent management
■ ensure the same level of Stellantis data protection from the Company’s business partners, a template of the GDPR
addendum to supplier contracts “Data Processing Agreement” has been defined based on the templates provided by
European Union; and our buyers are expected to be trained on using these documents.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
Further periodic meetings were held with the professional associations, notably in France, Germany and Italy directly
with the local Supervisory Authorities. Referring to the relation with the French Data Protection Commission (CNIL), the
Company was involved in an active process leading the CNIL publication of a “conformity package for connected vehicles”
in 2017, which explains how privacy regulations apply to the vehicle and connected services. This “conformity package”
has been raised at European level. The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) guidelines have been published early 2021
after having been discussed at ACEA level in 2020, especially with the participation of Stellantis. Read more
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
As announced in the Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan, Stellantis plans to launch a Big Data platform to improve Customer
documents/guidelines/guidelines-012020-
experience. A specific Data Business Unit named Mobilisights was set up to drive the new business . processing-personal-data-context_en
Infringement of consumer privacy regulations GRI 2-27
(GDPR and local data protection regulation, European scope)
The Company is subject to governmental investigations and legal proceeding on privacy.
FCA Italy S.p.A. in 2022 received two final judgments from the Italian Data Protection Authority relating to data subject/
customer complaints on GDPR provisions that occurred in 2017 and in 2021. The fine was not material, however, from 2017, Read more
FCA Italy S.p.A. has improved the process relating to the data subject exercise of their rights and set up a dedicated Portal . http://privacyportal.fcagroup.com
With the aim to monitor the data management processes, Stellantis examines the following indicators that could represent
a warning on the potential failure of privacy compliance:
INCIDENTS & BREACHES 2022
DATA BREACHES The data breaches are managed under policies implemented in and promptly managed engaging
all the main stakeholders in time and addressing the necessary countermeasures. The activity is
performed in strict coordination with the Information and Technology Dept., Cybersecurity Dept.
and our legal team.
CUSTOMERS CLAIMS The Stellantis Companies/Data Controllers, if requested by the local regulations, provide in the
privacy notice the contact details to exercise the data subject rights. The DPO teams are constantly
involved in the process to manage the data subject requests.
AUTHORITY REQUESTS The Authority requests are promptly managed with the support of the DPO teams.
& INSPECTION RESULTS In 2022 FCA Italy S.p.A. received 2 prescriptions and fines not material relating to claim of customer
occurred in 2017 and in 2021.
In 2022, 100 percent of complaints raised by supervisory Authorities for customer privacy/data protection infringements were
handled within one month and/or the due date required by these Authorities. The results for 2021 were also 100 percent.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
5.3 Responsible information to customer
5.3.1 CONTEXT AND STELLANTIS POSITION
GRI 3-3 GRI 417-1
CSR issue/challenge #13: Responsible information to customers 13 Responsible information to customers
Stellantis works to provide responsible information to the customer and to align its marketing practices with sustainability
guidelines. The Company strives to be transparent by adhering to fair marketing practices in its consumer-facing
communications. We are committed to accountability of information in customer facing communications as well as
environmental issues in line with applicable regulations (including CO reduction, protection of biodiversity and natural
2
habitats), health and safety.
Stellantis has set requirements for the marketing operations teams to achieve the targeted objectives. The Company
also advertises its products and services in ways that are intended to follow the regional regulations and encourage
responsible behavior by encouraging vehicle owners to use them in a safe and efficient way, notably in terms of fuel
economy, CO emissions, and respecting the safety rules of the road.
2
Company’s public position
Stellantis perceives Marketing’s role as an opportunity to innovate, create competitive advantages, and inform and
educate consumers in their choices and actions. It is our position outlining the north star for fair, data-driven marketing
practices will be the key competitive edge in the current trust revolution where consumers want to be recognized, treated
uniquely, and have their personal information protected and handled carefully.
Limitations on advertising, however, might have an impact on sales of new vehicles, with advertising being a market
animation tool.
Stellantis’s brands, through their engagement in local and national advertiser associations, look for opportunities
to participate in workshops on legal developments (i.e., environmental requirements in advertising, right for
customers to refuse to be contacted by brands, etc.) and external stakeholders' expectations in terms of responsible
communications and marketing to eliminate misleading advertising and unfair competition in the field of commercial
communications.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
5.3.2 FORWARD-LOOKING VISION AND TARGETS GRI 3-3 GRI 417-2 GRI 417-3
Commitment scoreboard
CSR ISSUE/ VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT RESULTS
CHALLENGE
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term 2022 2021
(End of Strategic Plan)
13 Responsible Provide accurate and Number of convictions 2022: Zero 2030: Zero 2050: Zero In 2022, Stellantis was found No material
information to comprehensive information of non-compliance convictions convictions convictions liable in two material matters convictions
customers to consumers through concerning: Worldwide Worldwide Worldwide that involved marketing or noticed
Owner: Chief Sales responsible marketing ▪ product and service labeling issues, in the U.S.
& Marketing Officer practices in all mass market information and labeling and Korea. See “FY 2022
communications, and MANAGEMENT REPORT –
▪ marketing
engage them with direct Stellantis Overview – Legal
communications
communication only when Proceedings – Emissions
consumers request it Matters” for a description of
these two matters
5.3.3 IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES GRI 3-3
The Company’s continued success is dependent on having a deep understanding of our customers while taking into
account the challenges and the opportunities to address changing consumer expectations and emerging trends by
offering an attractive portfolio of products.
5.3.3.1 Risks
The marketing practices are designed to reduce and mitigate risks the Company might be facing:
■ customers’ expectations of brands with respect to the environment and sustainability may not be aligned to brands’
awareness to make a difference, particularly to help customers make better and conscious choices. Brands risk losing
customers to competitors if they don’t guide them along their sustainable journey
■ Stellantis brands have a responsibility to publicly share their environmental sustainment progress and commitments.
Commitments are shared primarily via regional communications. However, the Jeep Brand hold global press events
due to their global footprint
■ in addition, our business operations and reputation may be impacted by various types of claims, lawsuits, and
other contingencies in case of noncompliance which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations
■ with global access to digital marketing assets, the Company can be also exposed to fines if some assets from other
countries are accessible and non-compliant with local regulations.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
5.3.3.2 Opportunities
Responsible marketing practices open opportunities for Stellantis:
■ communication recognized as responsible, transparent and easy to access (making content available to all), allowing
customers to be more aware when choosing a product (products and services) contributes to differentiate Company’s
products encouraging customer loyalty
■ marketing teams leverage their expertise to define brand strategies and implement plans that answer questions also
related to environmental and societal challenges including transparency, responsiveness and diversity. An effective
brand strategy and a clear set of brand values helps brand management teams capture market opportunities, implement
long-term visions and support Stellantis’ contribution to shape a more sustainable future
■ a fair brand enhances a company’s reputation while any unfair behavior can affect corporate intangible assets.
Fair branding provides Stellantis with a differential advantage as a growing number of consumers become more
conscious.
5.3.4 GOVERNANCE AND DECISION BODIES TO LEAD ACTIONS GRI 2-26 GRI 3-3
The Chief Sales & Marketing Officer, who is a member of the Top Executive Team and reports directly to the CEO, is
responsible for a Stellantis common marketing strategy supported by CEOs of the brands, tasked with all aspects of brand
strategy mission, development and positioning. Each brand has its own market share targets, brand image objectives and
positioning, and is linked to the corporate values by a common marketing strategy.
Stellantis offers a wide spectrum of choice from luxury, premium, and mainstream passenger vehicles to pickup trucks,
SUVs and light commercial vehicles, as well as dedicated mobility, financial and parts and service brands.
The focus of the Marketing and Communications organizations is to increase the value of the brands through The focus of the Marketing and
the development of a strategic vision for the business, on-brand marketing materials, and consumer facing Communications organizations
communications that intend to excite and create demand for our brands and products, realize relevant synergies and is to increase the value of
share best practices. the brands through the
development of a strategic
Being aware that an effective brand strategy and a clear set of brand values can support the Company to implement
vision for the business
corporate long-term visions, the Chief Sales and Marketing Officer leverages its internal committees such as the Monthly
Global Sales and Marketing Committee and the Brand Committee to coordinate marketing strategies, define priorities,
ensure consistency and alignment with corporate values and implementation of responsible practices across regions.
The fulfillment of each brand strategy needs the alignment of all brand employees, as their individual commitment drives
the performance of a model and/or country, efficiency of processes and sales volumes. Those efforts contribute to the
achievement of the brands’ targets.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
5.3.5 POLICIES TO EXECUTE THE STRATEGY GRI 3-3
Aware of the social role that advertising plays, the Company has adopted customer-centric positive values, a responsible
Responsible Marketing, Advertising
approach to communication and a sense of care towards future generations. In June 2022, Stellantis has made public its first
and Communication Guidelines
Responsible Marketing, Advertising and Communication Guidelines available on the Company’s website (Corporate Regulations
https://www.stellantis.com/en/company/
| Stellantis) which clearly define the commitment to integrity and compliance in its communication and advertising. governance/corporate-regulations
These guidelines have been developed:
■ to set and maintain standards of honesty, truth, accuracy and fairness in communication
■ to provide the criteria for responsible and sustainable advertising, marketing and communication
■ to form a basis upon which Stellantis’ communication is evaluated in response to stakeholders' request.
The purpose of these Guidelines is to apply Stellantis’ societal and environmental requirements to all forms of public
communication and to take into account both:
■ national regulations in countries where Stellantis operates
■ the International Commercial Chamber Advertising and Marketing Code Reference document: ICC Code of Advertising
and Commercial Communication Practices (2018, 10th revision), which consists of a globally applicable and recognized
self-regulatory framework.
On the basis of its Responsible Marketing, Advertising and Communication Guidelines, Stellantis is committed to integrity
and compliance in its communication and advertising, and aims at meeting three key principles:
1. All communication should be designed keeping in mind our societal responsibility, outlined in detail in 5.3.7 below , by: For more information refer to 5.3.7
● respecting human dignity and encouraging diversity
● respecting Stellantis’social commitments
● not condoning any form of discrimination
● not harming the security of people or property
● not inciting drivers to act violently or endanger other road users
● being honest and truthful.
2. All communication should be designed keeping in mind Stellantis’ environmental responsibility, by:
● presenting environmental expressions in an honest and truthful way, respectful of country regulation concerning
advertising films involving vehicles
● monitoring that supplier communications adhere to Stellantis’ environmental and social requirements.
3. All communication should be designed keeping in mind the potential financial impact on the customer, by:
● communicating commercial offers clearly and honestly
● not minimizing the importance of the financial commitment concerning lease or purchase financing offers.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
Stellantis aspires to:
■ provide accurate and comprehensive information through responsible marketing practices in all mass-market consumer
communications. This commitment concerns all public-aimed advertising or communication broadcast on traditional
media channels (TV, radio, billboard, press, etc.), on internet (websites, social media, emailing, mobile applications,
online games, direct marketing, etc.) as well as commercial messages of any kind whether in print, sales promotion and
merchandising materials
PRESS RELEASE
■ honestly and clearly communicate with customers regarding environmental responsibility, allowing them to identify
ECO-MOBILITY ACCORDING TO PEUGEOT:
the most efficient vehicle choice in terms of emissions reduction (e.g., Peugeot the “POWER OF CHOICE” strategy ) THE “POWER OF CHOICE” STRATEGY
■ make statement and representations in advertising comply with all relevant laws and regulations in the local country and https://www.media.stellantis.com/em-en/peugeot/
press/eco-mobility-according-to-peugeot-the-
design processes to help advertising, marketing and media communications to be truthful and reflect the Company’s
power-of-choice-strategy
fair sense of social and environmental responsibility contributing to the development of the next urban landscape
(e.g., Citroën oli [all-ë] concept)
5.3.6 ORGANIZATION AND RESOURCES GRI 3-3
Stellantis and its brands’ public-aimed communication and marketing are aligned with its corporate positive values and
with best marketing practices as outlined in its Responsible Marketing, Advertising and Communication Guidelines.
These Guidelines are published publically on the Stellantis corporate website and implemented by the Stellantis relevant
functions (e.g., Marketing, Advertising, Communications Departments) as well as by agencies and suppliers on a global
scope both as part of a supplier onboarding package and available on Stellantis supplier web portals.
Each Stellantis department proposing an advertisement has the responsibility to ensure compliance.
Specific organizations are involved with the development and review of advertising, marketing and other media
communications such as, Legal Department, Vehicle Safety and Regulatory Affairs, to assure that any statements
and representations made in advertising are accurate and properly substantiated. Special attention will be paid to
environmentally-focused messaging to ensure there is no misperception of “greenwashing”.
Many Company’s brands also interact with associations and advertising regulation agencies. For example, in Europe some
brands submit advertising communications to national advertising regulation agencies and/or their legal departments.
Thus, in France, the Autorité de Régulation Professionnelle de la Publicité (ARPP) controls TV commercials, in order to
ensure notably that their content complies with the local advertising regulations and does not contain stereotypes. In
2022, Peugeot, Citroën and DS French marketing teams renewed their commitment to apply the Union des Marques
(UDM) FAIRe program, for responsible communication.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
Training on responsible marketing practices and responsible use of social media
A global curriculum was engaged in 2022 to train marketing, sales and public relations professionals on the requirements
communication in the Responsible Advertising, Marketing and Communication guidelines. The mandatory training is
planned to be provided to these employees in 2023.
5.3.7 MAIN INITIATIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND RESULTS GRI 3-3
IMPACT MEASUREMENT OF ELECTRIFICATION AND SOFTWARE STRATEGY
During a corporate strategy presentation held on March 1, 2022, Stellantis unveiled Dare Forward 2030, a bold
strategic plan for the coming decade, that will aim to drive Stellantis employees to be ‘second to none’ in value
creation for all stakeholders. Stellantis committed to become the industry champion in the fight against climate
change, reaching carbon net zero emissions by 2038.
Within this presentation, Stellantis reiterated their focus on “customer first” programs, which include clear and
responsible communication practices. “The customer is at the heart of everything we do. We aim to be No. 1 in Watch a replay of the video
customer satisfaction for our products and services in every market. We will pay exceptional attention to the full presentation
end-to-end experience, working to eliminate any friction throughout the value chain.” https://channel.royalcast.com/stellantis-en/#!/
stellantis-en/20220301_1
The Dare Forward 2030 program also highlighted the current and future importance of selling vehicles online.
Stellantis plans to reach one-third of global sales online in 2030 and launch a global digital marketplace offering
customers a seamless journey through the entire Stellantis galaxy of products and services. The e-commerce buying
process will be clearly and directly communicated to customers with pricing transparency.
E-COMMERCE IS OUR SALES MOTTO
Dare Forward 2030 builds on the value shared during EV and Software strategy announcements in 2021.
1/3
2x online sales
100k
each year
2021 till 2024 2030
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
During the EV Day held on July 8, 2021, Stellantis presented a comprehensive electrification strategy delivering class-leading Watch a replay of the 2021 EV
vehicles for the Company’s iconic brands, partnerships and joint ventures for advanced technology at affordable prices. strategy content
https://evday2021.webstream.fr/vod/
“The customer is always at the heart of Stellantis and our commitment with this €30 billion plus investment plan is to
offer iconic vehicles that have the performance, capability, style, comfort and electric range that fit seamlessly into their Watch a replay of the 2021 Software
daily lives,” said on that day Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer, Stellantis. Strategy content
https://channel.royalcast.com/stellantis-en/#!/
In line with this announcement, on December 7, 2021, Stellantis unveiled its software strategy to shift to a mobility tech stellantis-en/20211207_1
company, confirming that each of Stellantis’ brands are focused on using software to the benefit of its customers .
STELLANTIS AUTOMOTIVE BRANDS’ ATTRIBUTES
Muscle
Granturismo LUXURY
AMERICAN ROOTED
Courage
BRANDS
Ingenious
Sportiness
Art of Travel PREMIUM Allure
Eleganza German Energy
EUROPEAN ROOTED
BRANDS
Dolce Vita
GLOBAL SPORT
Freedom
UTILITY
Care
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
Affordability is a priority at Stellantis, as the Company is targeting for the total cost of ownership of EVs to be equivalent Affordability is a priority
to internal combustion engine vehicles by 2026. Each of the Company’s 14 brands is committed to offering fully electrified at Stellantis
solutions and doing so in a way that enhances the DNA of our brands.
To leverage this, Stellantis and its brands’ public-aimed communication and marketing are aligned with its corporate
positive values and with its Responsible Advertising, Marketing and Communication Guidelines which also promote
honesty, truth, accuracy and fairness in communication, respect for Stellantis environmental and social requirements.
Labelling and information provided to customers
To improve vehicle purchase information, a fuel-efficiency label is displayed in North America, Europe, China, Japan,
Korea and Taiwan for each model’s average fuel consumption and CO emissions, in line with applicable legal and
2
regulatory requirements. Those labels allow to identify the most efficient vehicles in terms of fuel consumption and
emissions reduction.
RESPECTING HUMAN DIGNITY AND ENCOURAGING DIVERSITY
AND NOT CONDONING ANY FORM OF DISCRIMINATION
Stellantis and its brands analyze their communications to avoid offending the sensibilities, undermining a person’s
dignity and indecency, degrading or humiliating representation of any person, paying attention to stereotypes that
could diminish any person, regardless of gender and avoiding to portray people as an object.
On this respect, some campaigns created in Europe go through a regulatory clearance via bodies such as Autorité
de Régulation Professionnelle de la Publicité (ARPP, France) or Clearcast (UK) whereas campaigns created in North
America are validated by a specific consultant agency, specialized in these topics. North American brands partner
work with an expert media agency serving as a consultant to ensure their general market advertising does not include
stereotypes and is respectful to people of color. This same commitment has been implemented through the Citroën C3
advertising campaigns and the Jeep Grand Wagoneer launch campaign.
In addition, Stellantis commits to gender and sexual orientation equality through targeted and mass market brand
communications aligning with each brand’s core values. All North American brands have created “Pride” merchandise
lines to appeal to LGBTQTIA+ audiences and the Jeep Brand created brand activations at the Detroit and New York Pride
parades in 2022.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
Representing and promoting responsible environmental and road safety behaviors
Our responsibility as a Company is to create sustainable and shared value for our stakeholders. Our customers,
employees, investors, suppliers and communities expect us to make a positive contribution to the economy, society and
the environment. Exchanges with our stakeholders and social groups improve mutual understanding and our ability to
anticipate risks and identify opportunities for value creation, key elements of the Stellantis approach.
Peugeot UK website
Some Stellantis brands have specific environmental visions and some communicate towards their goals and achievements
www.peugeot.co.uk/about-us/environment/
on their own websites, such as www.peugeot.co.uk/about-us/environment/sustainability.html sustainability.html
Stellantis and its brands inform their stakeholders about the environmental and social impact of their products/services
and educate them to encourage a responsible use.
This is the case through our circular economy initiatives, but also regarding the daily use of our products and services.
Circular economy
In addition to direct promotion of spare parts from reused and remanufactured spare parts in the garages, circular Watch more
economy initiatives are promoted in some regions on social media across Stellantis brands to inform consumers and https://www.facebook.com/Stellantis/videos/
stellantis-circular-economy/2973548449593123/
increase their awareness.
Thus, in 2022, as a committed player in the energy transition, Citroën launched « Citroën Citizen Services ® » a federative
programme bringing together a portfolio of services under a single label, to offer responsible mobility designed to be easy
to use, in line with the challenges of our society. A part of “Citroën Citizen Services ®” facilitates the accessibility in the
maintenance of its vehicle whatever its age, with easy access to original spare parts from end-of-life vehicle. Thanks to
the deployment of a dedicated website, customers are able to search for and acquire the parts they need, which will be
delivered to their home. This easy and economical solution encourages consumers to keep longer their vehicle in good
condition by changing parts at a lower cost. They benefit from a purchase price up to 70% lower than the price of the new
part and thus contribute to the increase of the recycling rate by using second-hand parts.
In addition, Citroën plans to offer customers of electric models the option of a Sustainable Service Contract that includes
the use of recycled or remanufactured parts approved by the manufacturer, whenever possible. This will maximize the use
of circular economy parts and reduce the carbon footprint of vehicle maintenance.
Brands also strive to promote responsible behaviors through their online (websites, apps, etc.) and offline (TVCs, print,
etc.) communication tools. This is made possible in advertising through complying to the local traffic regulations, ensuring
diversity is of the essence and promoting the adoption of new energies as a better environmental choice. Surveys provide Brands strive to promote
the opportunity to measure the impacts and gain insight on the perception of the brands and their messages. In the U.S., responsible behaviors
many aspects are evaluated such as trust, responsibility, safety, environmentally friendly, among other elements. Utilizing
survey data helps with developing and refining the strategy to manage the brands.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
The MyDS services
MyDS app is the key to the world of DS. It connects the driver and her/his car before, during and after every journey,
through features. For instance, the Connected Navigation Pack helps planning a route when the user is away from it’s DS
and then, to send its to the car’s screen.
Remote Control allows the user to lock and unlock its DS vehicle without key, simply by using MyDS app. This app
also provides an access to DS Only You, a suite of bespoke services designed to make living with one’s car effortless
and enjoyable. In addition, for DS electric vehicles, E-TENSE Remote Control allows the user to manage the electric
charging and to set the temperature inside her/his car. MyDS app, available for all DS vehicles, can be downloaded on
all smartphones.
Reviews posted on Citroën
Citroën Advisor
Advisor at the end of 2022
Part of the Citroën Citizen Services®, Citroën Advisor is Citroën’s online review site launched in 2016 where customers
>500,000
can give their opinion on the service they received at the point of sale (Advisor Dealer), the product purchased (Advisor
Product) or the salesman (Advisor Salesmen). At the end of 2022, more than 500,000 reviews have already been posted
by Citroën customers all over the world.
Innovative approach to sustainable mobility
In 2022, Citroën contributed to promoting electric mobility on the island of La Maddalena with the project “CITROËN
DRIVE LA MADDALENA ELECTRIC”. With this initiative, Citroën delivered a fleet of nine all-electric vehicles to local
authorities of the island, including two WallBox rechargers, and offered exclusive benefits reserved for its inhabitants
for the purchase of electrified Citroën vehicles.
Citroën wanted to make electrification and progress accessible to people on the island of La Maddalena, including
public authorities.The daily use of these all-electric Citroën vehicles by local authorities is an example of mobility for
everyone, not only of those who live on the island but also for the many tourists who visit it every year.
Citroën Oli [all-ë] concept car: radical, responsible and optimistic approach Citroën Oli
https://www.citroen.co.uk/about-citroen/
Citroën Oli [all-ë] is a striking conceptual manifesto of intelligent ideas challenging the status quo: a destination for
concept-cars/citroen-oli.html
versatile and enjoyable all-electric mobility to enhance the lives and lifestyles of all kinds of people. The target of Citroën
Oli is to achieve the ‘best-in-class’ Life Cycle Assessment by reducing weight and complexity, and using recycled and
recyclable materials, for a better affordability, durability, and longevity.
Inspired by Citroën Oli, Citroën is deploying a new approach to property, services, and experiences for customers of
electric vehicles.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
Citroën AMI Citroën AMI orders
An affordable and electric mobility solution that is accessible for all (with or without a driving license) is a success without >30,000
borders, with already up to more than 30,000 orders. Marketed in 9 countries in Europe, in the United Kingdom and in
Turkey for professional and individual customers. Environmentally friendly, the 100% electric AMI emits zero emissions
when driving and means free access to increasingly restricted city centers.
The Jeep Brand held a global “4xe” day on September 8, 2022 to further communicate their commitments toward
“Zero Electric Freedom”. By 2025, there will be an electrified Jeep Brand vehicle available in every segment around the
world and by 2030, Jeep Brand sales intend to reach 50% electric in the U.S. and 100% electric in Europe.
Environmental and Social internal levers to limit the environmental and social impact of our
communication materials
Stellantis has defined a set of environmental and social criteria that applies to its printed documents, point of sale European Programme for Certified
advertising, stands and events. We are working hard towards applying these criteria worldwide. Forests (PEFC)
https://www.pefc.org/
As an example, in Europe, we aim at using the European Programme for Certified Forests (PEFC) or Forest Stewardship
Council (FSC) paper for recurrent and unavoidable publications and print only the number of copies required. Our printers Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)
have “Imprim’vert” or “Imprim’Lux” certification which testifies that they sort and recycle all their printing waste and inks.
https://fsc.org/
In France, we are a member of Citeo (recycling company mandated by the French Government): it means that our Citeo
contribution is given to local authorities to support their paper sorting and collection systems.
In various regions of the world, our brands have either stopped printing most commercial and marketing documentation
altogether for several years or have strongly shifted towards e-catalogs and documentation in 2021.
Responsible events policy
For the 2022 Paris Motor Show, Stellantis applied the frame contract signed in 2017 with selected suppliers who are
committed to reducing the environmental impact of their stands (choice of materials used, recycling and reuse); use wood
which comes entirely from sustainably-managed forests and recycle 100% of the waste from the production/demolition
of the stands (wood and other materials to be recycled separately); with reuse of the stand components parts for other
shows (floors, partitions, screens, furniture, etc.).
Our motor show strategy has strongly evolved recently:
■ many motor shows were cancelled since 2020 due to COVID-19 situation
■ many brands renewed their brand identity since 2020 leading automatically to a lower % of reuse with an additional
creation/investment of new material
■ since the merger in 2021, Stellantis’ motor show strategy has been revised to concentrate participation in less motor
shows with strong ROI, reducing the total number of participation and initial % of re-use planned.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
Joint communication initiatives of brands
Stellantis brands consider organizing joint international press events when they have new models in common, e.g. Light
Commercial Vehicles, to make better use of resources and to optimize media time and attendance. In June 2022, joint
press test drives were organized for Peugeot e-EXPERT HYDROGEN, Citroën ë-JUMPY HYDROGEN and Opel VIVARO-e
HYDROGEN in Rüsselsheim and the Rhine-Main region (Germany).
Reasoned audiovisual productions
Stellantis has committed to using local in-house teams or hiring production teams in the country where the video or photo
shoots take place, whenever possible. Local and regional photo and video shootings are also encouraged as standard.
Responsible practices are also required through the production briefs issued by Stellantis or its brands to their agencies.
Stellantis maintains control over the distribution of its communication and uses the data
responsively
Controlled Broadcasting of Advertisements
Stellantis and its brands control their communication broadcasting through processes in place and audience strategies, in
partnership with their advertising and media agencies. The Stellantis Responsible Purchasing Guidelines, revised in 2022
include a clause requiring suppliers to comply with the laws and regulations in force in all countries in which they operate.
These guidelines are used for all purchases made by Stellantis.
Advertising Formats
We prioritize digital advertising formats respecting user's comfort in accordance with the available reference sources,
whether they be Coalition for Better Ads Standards, Digital Ad Trust or best practices encouraged within this field
depending on the region we operate in. Our media agency adheres to Coalition for Better Ads Standards, hence actively
encouraging our service and media providers to use these more often.
Volume of Requests and Personal Data
Stellantis and its brands are careful to limit too numerous or inappropriate requests towards its audiences and make a
proper use of personal data collected, through well-established standard processes and policies in line with applicable
laws and regulations . For more information refer to 5.2
All U.S. brand eMail communications are designed to be CAN SPAM compliant, allowing customers to select the customer
preference center where they can opt out of communications. Additionally, all customer data is stored in a secure
environment that is monitored regularly.
Considering and Including all Audiences
Our brands aim to add subtitling for main advertising campaigns whenever possible. Online material for U.S. websites and
video content are designed to meet the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) compliance standards.
ERUTLUC
LACIHTE
RUO
GNITOMORP
YB
SNOITALOIV
SCIHTE
GNITNEVERP
5
SignLive and Citroën
Since 2021, Citroën UK has partnered with SignLive, the leading British Sign Language (BSL) online video interpreting
service, to offer customers the ability to communicate with its entire 190 Citroën retail and aftermarket network using
British Sign Language (BSL).
There are 11 million deaf and hard of hearing people in the UK, and over 150,000 British Sign Language users – Citroën is
aware that English is not the only language for many of its customers. Citroën UK pledges to enhance accessibility for the
deaf community across its business as part of its ”The French Car that Speaks your Language” initiative, including across Read more
advertising . www.citroen.co.uk/signlive
Environmental and Social Commitments from Partners
Stellantis Responsible Purchasing Guidelines revised in 2022 include environmental and social criteria as supplier selection
and retention in the Stellantis Supplier panel is guided by Corporate and Social Responsibility (CSR) criteria.
Waste management policy
In France, some of Stellantis brands are working with a supplier specialized in the production and design or stands and
event spaces that implemented the ISO 2021 certification - an international standard for the responsible management of
event activities, and is processing its wastes in a strict manner, in order to enter into a circular economy logic.
This supplier has thus equipped its two French sites with specific waste collection channels to sort out various materials
after each event: wood, paper, cardboard, floor coverings and paint canisters.
Transparency, Truthfulness and Accountability in Calls for Tenders
We strive to uphold the principles of transparency, truthfulness and accountability in calls for tenders. On top of this,
our Code of Conduct, which can be accessed by all employees, includes a transparency, integrity and loyalty rule for
relationships with suppliers and service providers.
More specifically, all Company employees must refrain from any anti-competitive practices.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6 PROMOTING PROTECTION AND IMPLEMENTING
RESPONSIBLE USE OF NATURAL RESOURCES
6.1 WISE USE OF MATERIALS IN THE VEHICLE 6.4 OPTIMIZATION OF MATERIAL CYCLES
LIFE CYCLE (INCLUDING PRODUCT IN MANUFACTURING PROCESSES
RECYCLING) 327 (INCLUDING WASTE) 366
6.1.1 Context and Stellantis position 327 6.4.1 Context and Stellantis position 366
6.1.2 Forward-looking vision and targets 329 6.4.2 Forward-looking vision and targets 366
6.1.3 Identification and management of risks 6.4.3 Identification and management of risks
and opportunities 329 and opportunities 367
6.1.4 Governance and decision bodies to lead 6.4.4 Main initiatives, achievements and results 369
actions 332 6.4.5 Detailed key performance indicators 373
6.1.5 Policies to execute the strategy 336
6.1.6 Organization and resources 340 6.5 CONTROL OF INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGES
6.1.7 Main initiatives, achievements and results 341 AND NUISANCES 375
6.1.8 Detailed key performance indicators 354
6.5.1 Context and Stellantis position 375
6.2 VEHICLE IMPACT ON AIR QUALITY 355 6.5.2 Forward-looking vision and targets 375
6.5.3 Identification and management of risks
6.2.1 Context and Stellantis position 355 and opportunities 376
6.2.2 Forward-looking vision and targets 356 6.5.4 Main initiatives, achievements and results 377
6.2.3 Identification and management of risks 6.5.5 Detailed key performance indicators 380
and opportunities 357
6.2.4 Governance and decision bodies to lead 6.6 SUSTAINABLE WATER MANAGEMENT
actions 360
IN MANUFACTURING 382
6.2.5 Policies to execute the strategy 360
6.2.6 Organization and resources 360 6.6.1 Context and Stellantis position 382
6.2.7 Main initiatives, achievements and results 361 6.6.2 Forward-looking vision and targets 382
6.6.3 Identification and management of risks
6.3 INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENTAL and opportunities 383
FOOTPRINT 362 6.6.4 Main initiatives, achievements and results 384
6.6.5 Detailed key performance indicators 389
6.3.1 Governance and decision bodies to lead
actions 362
6.7 PROTECTION OF BIODIVERSITY 396
6.3.2 Policies to execute the strategy 364
6.3.3 Organization and resources 364 6.7.1 Context and Stellantis position 396
6.7.2 Forward-looking vision and targets 397
6.7.3 Identification and management of risks
and opportunities 397
6.7.4 Main initiatives, achievements and results 399
6.7.5 Detailed key performance indicators 402
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
STELLANTIS’ CSR MACRO-RISK/PILLAR V. PROMOTING PROTECTION AND IMPLEMENTING
RESPONSIBLE USE OF NATURAL RESOURCE
The global economy is facing the challenges of increasing scarcity and an over-use of natural resources (water, minerals,
raw materials, rare earths, etc.) combined with their geographical concentration. The United Nations’ Sustainable
Development Goals confirm the urge to find solutions both for the environment and political stability, which are key levers
of sustainability for companies like Stellantis.
In this context of scarcity of natural resources, preserving them, including the quality of the air, a precious natural resource
on which human health depends, and reducing our dependence on water and raw materials are both a question of
environmental responsibility and of sustainability for businesses. Automakers need to rethink the materials adopted in
mobility devices and their production processes.
In order to save resources while providing new sources of employment and of income, Stellantis is strengthening the PRESS RELEASE
sustainable and circular economy approach by creating a dedicated Circular Economy Business Unit: it is naturally part of
Dare Forward 2030: Stellantis’ Blueprint for
the Care pillar as well as one of the seven accretive business announced during the Company’s Dare Forward 2030 strategic Cutting-Edge Freedom of Mobility
plan in March 2022. The commitment to sustainability covers different activities such as conducting Life Cycle Assessment https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
press-releases/2022/march/dare-forward-2030-
(LCA) studies on vehicles, deploying engineering research and development around new more sustainable materials, the
stellantis-blueprint-for-cutting-edge-freedom-
recovery of parts and materials and improving manufacturing processes. Stellantis strives to improve the performance of of-mobility
our factories by reducing water consumption, managing the quantity and disposal of waste and other impacts generated by
production, while integrating the need to protect the biodiversity of the surrounding areas. We design vehicles with the goal
to reduce the environmental impact including when the vehicle has reached the end of its useful life .
6.1 Wise use of materials in the vehicle life cycle (including product
recycling)
6.1.1 CONTEXT AND STELLANTIS POSITION GRI 3-3
Wise use of materials in the vehicle life
CSR issue/challenge #14: Wise use of materials in the vehicle life cycle (including product 14
cycle (including product recycling)
recycling)
The conditions of access to resources will become more complex in the decades to come. The world's population reached World Population Prospects 2022:
eight billion at the end of 2022 (World Population Prospects 2022: Summary of Results , with a high aspiration to Summary of Results
un.org
consume more. The OECD estimates that by 2060 the average income might be equivalent to that of today's richest
Global Material Resources Outlook to 2060
countries , which will induce a doubling of the use of raw materials to meet this growth, exerting ever more pressure on https://www.oecd.org/environment/global-
the environment. Recent geopolitical conditions also demonstrate the interdependence of countries on resources. material-resources-outlook-to-2060-
9789264307452-en.htm
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
Stellantis is committed to change the consumption model and the way products are designed within a circular economy.
The principle of a circular economy is embedded into Stellantis’ business approach, focusing on extending the lifespan
of products and reducing the use of natural resources starting from the production process, to the end of vehicle life,
by reusing materials and returning waste and materials into the production loop. We are developing ways to increase
the use of renewable and recycled materials for new vehicles and to extend the aftersales offer of reused, repaired and
remanufactured parts with new product lines and in new regions. We are committed to processing end-of-life products
and vehicles in a responsible manner including batteries from electrified vehicles.
We are working to overcome the use of hazardous substances targeted by regulations such as REACH. We are
also working to find alternatives for the use of rare and precious resources which are often indispensable for
nanotechnologies. In some cases, these materials are required for connected vehicles and technologies making them
dependent on their availability.
Company’s public position
Stellantis promotes the repair of its products and, as such, develops a range of remanufactured spare parts and offers
second-hand parts and a spare parts repair service. Through its action within a representative structure of automobile
manufacturers such as, for example, the Association of European Automobile Manufacturers (ACEA) or the Automotive
Industry Platform (PFA), it also supports the development of a harmonized methodology for measuring the rate of
incorporation of recycled and natural materials.
The Company promotes the adoption of best practices by EU Member States to implement the EU Directive on the
treatment of End-of-Life Vehicles (ELV). It advocates for a higher output (ELV pollution and dismantling parts, shredding,
post-shredding, and recycling materials) of the recycling industry and its professionalization. By incorporating efficient
processes to recover quality materials for new battery development, Stellantis is actively working on future solutions for
end-of-life batteries and complying with responsible materials sourcing rules in the global battery value chain. For more information refer to 7.1.1
Stellantis, since 2020, along with 10 other Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs), are jointly developing actions to
voluntarily improve the social, ethical and environmental performance of automotive supply chains under the umbrella of
the Drive Sustainability Initiative.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.1.2 FORWARD-LOOKING VISION AND TARGETS GRI 3-3
CSR ISSUE/ VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT RESULTS
CHALLENGE
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term 2022 2021
(End of Strategic Plan)
Wise use of Wise use of materials Percentage of Green 2025: launch the first 2030: launch the first 2050: continue to Application of Green Materials 14
materials in the in the vehicle life cycle Materials (includes vehicles containing vehicles containing reinforce Green green materials in applied on vehicles in
vehicle life cycle (including product renewable and recycled 25% of Green 40% of Green Materials content in vehicles launched in major regions
(including product recycling)” is innovative content with lower carbon Materials Materials the future vehicles 2022 according to
recycling) with eco-design and footprint materials) on Stellantis roadmap
Owner: Chief leverage end-of-life total vehicle weight for 2030
Engineering Officer opportunities in a circular
economy approach
to reduce the use of Availability of solutions 2025: at least 2030: at least 2050: all solutions Solutions Repair Solution
natural resources and the to optimize High-Voltage one solution is one solution is implemented in all implemented per launched in France
environmental impact to Batteries lifespan and implemented for implemented for countries where EVs Region: EE: 4; NA: 3; and Germany
the lowest possible level end-of-life through Repair, each High-Voltage each High-Voltage are sold SA: 1; MEA: 1; IAP: 1; Reman Solution in
Remanufacturing, Battery sold in EU, Battery in all China: 1 Europe and North
Second-life, Recycling NA, China countries where EVs ▪ E-Repair Services America
are sold available in Second-Lifeprocess
France, Germany, in place one in
Israel, Japan and Europe and one in
South Korea North America
▪ Increased Reman
Recycling process
batteries types
in place in Europe,
for BEV vehicles,
North America and
including the
China
Maserati EV
platform
▪ Second-Life
pilots in Enlarged
Europe and North
America
▪ Recycling process
available in main
EV sales countries
6.1.3 IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES GRI 3-3
The automotive industry is facing a transformation that is impacting several aspects of its business: the materials used to
build a vehicle are a key issue OEMs need to tackle. Stellantis has identified four types of risks in this area and implemented
mitigation measures which open the way to opportunities of gaining competitive advantages or creating new businesses.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
RISK#1: SCARCITY OF CRITICAL MATERIALS
The availability of limited resources could generate scarcity of materials, included those critical.
Stellantis defines the criticality of a material according to three criteria:
▪ use criticality: materials where there are currently no alternatives, that are used for special features and which are important for
competitiveness
▪ supply criticality/potential scarcity: limited global quantity or unreliable supply chains
▪ CSR criticality: the extraction or use of these materials is questionable from a CSR viewpoint such as environmental impact and breach
of human rights.
Transition to electrified vehicles is generating need for new raw materials such as lithium, nickel and cobalt. Demand for the materials
needed for nanotechnologies is greater than ever. Rare earths show tensions in their market. Some stages of the polymers production
process show a high concentration of among a small number of suppliers.
In order to mitigate the related impacts such as the increase in production costs, supply chain disruptions or delays and dependency
following measures are implemented : For more information refer to 6.1.7
▪ limit and reduce the use of critical materials;
▪ identify and monitor materials considered as strategic;
▪ develop alternative materials to substitute those critical materials;
▪ sign contracts with critical material suppliers such as the lithium geothermal partners to secure supply contracts;
▪ use LCA extensively to measure and reduce environmental impacts.
In addition, in order to address the challenges of accessing sustainable raw materials, Stellantis partners with the European Raw European Raw Materials Alliance
Materials Alliance (ERMA) . Stellantis participates in a working group oriented on rare earths for e-machine used for permanent (ERMA)
magnets. The other working group will cover raw-materials for batteries. erma.eu
Stellantis has launched several initiatives, which open technical and business opportunities:
▪ develop a dual chemistry strategy based on two cobalt free batteries from 2024 ; For more information refer to 2.5.3.2.4
▪ increase circular economy opportunities, using materials and designing components that are easier to recover and recycle at the end of
their life, recycling materials that are becoming scarce and reusing them inside or outside the automotive sector ; For more information refer to 6.1.7
▪ reuse or remanufacture or repair parts to reduce demand ; For more information refer to 6.1.7
▪ use of Green Materials such as recycled or material of natural origin . For more information refer to 6.1.7
RISK#2: INCREASED REGULATIONS ON HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
Regulatory requirements regarding the use of hazardous substances that can impact the environment together with the health and
safety of customers and employees could increase in the future.
In order to mitigate the related impacts such as costs of potential non-compliance as well as cost and availability of substitute materials,
For more information refer to 6.1.7
following measures are implemented :
▪ factor regulatory requirements regarding the use of hazardous substances into the phases of the vehicle life cycle;
▪ reduce and eliminate hazardous substances such as limiting Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) in the materials used and substituting
some substances used as plasticizers or flame retardants that are targeted by regulations such as REACH;
▪ monitor traceability of regulated substances contained in vehicle parts and materials, notably by working closely with suppliers to
achieve compliance of vehicles and parts sold.
Stellantis has launched several initiatives, which open technical opportunities:
▪ anticipate regulations by mastering impact of possible future changes;
▪ improve cabin health and safety voluntarily introducing technical solutions such as filters for air flow . For more information refer to 6.1.7
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
RISK#3: INCREASED REGULATION ON END-OF-LIFE PROCESSES
Changes in end-of-life of vehicles (ELV) regulations could affect the dismantling and recycling sector by adding additional requirements
to the Authorized Treatment Facilities (ATFs), increasing the responsibility of the OEMs to manage the entire end-of-life handling
process. In some regions of the world such as the EU, South Korea and China, legislation requires producers to ensure recycling
treatment at the end-of-life of High-Voltage Batteries (HVB).
The EU has initiated a review process which will increase producer’s obligations and generate the likely risk of surcharges.
Under current Market conditions, the value of reused and recycled materials recovered from an ELV covers all cost of related activities
like collection, depollution and dismantling as well as treatment of remaining material streams.
Impacts resulting from the combination of cost increase and reduced revenues can be explained by the increase of producer’s obligations
in the global ELV process. This trend is reinforced by the HVB end-of-life treatment.
In order to mitigate these impacts, following measures are implemented:
▪ use materials and design components that are compatible with the circular economy process, including the need to recover and recycle
end-of-life vehicles;
▪ deploy responsible process of end-of-life products specifically the vehicles and batteries from electrified vehicles For more information refer to 6.1.7
▪ work with stakeholders and authorities to define optimized ELV management structure.
Stellantis has launched several initiatives, which open technical and business opportunities:
▪ develop a Circular Economy Business Unit to offer customers the option of reused parts coming from ELVs, generating additional
revenues and economic balance of the process with new opportunities of savings thanks to materials recycling activities;
▪ participate in or acquire innovative startups such as Amanhã Global For more information refer to 6.1.7
▪ reduce the variety of plastics to facilitate sorting after shredding and improve profitability;
▪ use a single family of plastics per core function so that an entire sub-assembly can be recycled without dismantling;
▪ mark plastic parts with standardized codes for identification, sorting and traceability;
▪ introduce green materials (recycled) into vehicle design to support the development of recycling opportunities . For more information refer to 6.1.7
Specific impacts of upcoming regulations notably in EU and China might lead to increase the producers’ obligations and generate
the likely risk of additional costs. To mitigate this risk, Stellantis is implementing measures to reduce logistics costs, extend the HVB
lifespan before recycling through repair and remanufacturing or repurpose the HVB or its components for energy storage outside of the
automotive sector with possible revenue generation.
RISK#4: LOW ENVIRONMENTAL AND HUMAN RIGHTS RESPECT IN SUPPLY CHAIN DURING EXTRACTION
PHASE OF SOME MINERALS
Some raw materials or minerals could come from a region of the world where environmental and social regulations are not aligned with
the Company’s values and standards or where conflicts are open (tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold - also known as 3TG - are “conflict
minerals” for which the mining can provide a source of funding for war).
Companies are working to meet growing expectations of stakeholders (including shareholders, employees, customers and NGOs) to take
responsibility for their supplier’s environmental and social practices.
In order to mitigate the related reputational or financial impacts in case of litigations, following measures are implemented:
▪ implement a due diligence process which strives to use, as much as possible, materialsfrom responsible supply chains respecting
human rights and the environment For more information refer to 7
▪ introduce a traceability system for supplies that contain conflict minerals Stellantis pays particular attention to the materials used in For more information refer to 7.2.4
batteries for electrified vehicles through the supply chain and supports initiatives for innovative supplies of raw materials
▪ develop partnerships such as the European Raw Materials Alliance (ERMA) . For more information refer to 6.1.7
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
NANOTECHNOLOGIES IN THE AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
Nanotechnologies are a relevant illustration of the combination of those risks while demand for the materials they
require is greater than ever in the context of the increased appetite for connected objects. This trend also affects the
automotive industry. Metals used to support nanotechnologies experience market tensions and are increasingly harder
to mine: the metal content of the ore is decreasing, while mines currently operated show lower concentrations which
implies more and more processing. Stellantis is focused on limiting and reducing the use of these metals and increasing
the recovery during the recycling phase.
6.1.4 GOVERNANCE AND DECISION BODIES TO LEAD ACTIONS
A materials strategy monitored at Strategy Council level
The Global Purchasing and Supply Chain EVP and the Engineering EVP, both direct reports to the CEO, and members of
the Top Executive Team and the Strategy Council are responsible for the materials strategy. Mapping of material risks for
both current and forecasts, is performed according to specific criteria for each raw material.
Some of the criteria include:
■ significant contribution to develop existing technologies;
■ scarcity and geographic location;
■ social and environmental impacts including recyclability and extraction or production conditions;
■ geopolitical or logistic accessibility;
■ cost and share of Stellantis needs compared to global market demand and market players.
Based on this risk mapping, the EVPs validate the R&D roadmap on substitute materials or alternative supplies, to manage
and secure the Company’s sourcing over the long-term, notably through collaborative actions with metallurgy and mining
industries.
The finance department performs cost monitoring on materials in connection with operational purchasing plus research
and development teams. Their goal is to anticipate and manage cost developments, help diversify and monitor the
most strategic supplies. In the context of increasing scarcity and costs of raw materials on the long-term, the supplier
relationship is a lever to implement the Company material and product development policies. Stellantis focuses its efforts
on the materials used in batteries for electrified vehicles through the supply chain and supports initiatives for innovative For more information refer to 7.1.3
sourcing of raw materials.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
A Circular Economy Business Unit
In order to further master the wise use of materials in the vehicle life cycle and reduce the environmental impact in terms
of carbon footprint, Stellantis has created a Business Unit dedicated to circular economy. As one of the seven accretive
Business Units outlined in Stellantis March 2022 Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan, its aim is to build a sustainable and
profitable business based on circular economy principles investigating and expanding opportunities in various areas
such as the use of plant surplus (excess of parts and materials from factories), parts remanufacturing, reparing, reusing,
end-of-life vehicle management and recycled materials in a closed-loop process.
Throughout the full vehicle life cycle we have developed a comprehensive 360-degree business based on the 4R Strategy:
reman, repair, reuse and recycle in order to extend products (vehicles and High-Voltage Batteries (HVB)) lifespan and
reduce waste by returning into the material loop.
■ Reman: used, worn and defective parts are recovered, dismantled, cleaned and remanufactured to OEM specifications,
same performance and warranty as original parts
■ Repair: worn parts removed from a customer’s vehicle, repaired and returned to be refitted to the same vehicle (for
example electronic parts, gearboxes and traction batteries)
■ Reuse: original multi-brand parts in good condition recovered from end-of-life vehicles and reused as-is to be fitted
to other vehicles. Life extension includes projects to repurpose for reuse High-Voltage Batteries in non-automotive
For more details on Second-Life
business refer to 6.1.7.7
■ Recycle: recycled materials from production, maintenance scraps and end-of-life vehicles (ELVs) fed back into the
PRESS RELEASE
manufacturing process of new vehicles and aftersales products . This reduces the carbon emission to produce parts
from scratch while minimizing the risk of raw material scarcity and the material cost fluctuation impact. Stellantis Fosters Circular Economy
Ambitions with Dedicated Business
To promote the 4R strategy and embrace all the Company’s initiatives in terms of circular economy during the vehicle life Unit to Power New Era of Sustainable
cycle, (from design to production of new vehicles, to the use of vehicles until the end of vehicle life and recycling) through Manufacturing and Consumption
https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
one recognizable identity, the Stellantis Circular Economy Business Unit launched the new label “SUSTAINera - circular
press-releases/2022/october/stellantis-
economy - Making a better future”: it embodies the Stellantis core value “We care for the future” through a responsible fosters-circular-economy-ambitions-with-
dedicated-business-unit-to-power-new-era-of-
business entering a new era of sustainability . sustainable-manufacturing-and-consumption
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
SUSTAINera:
■ represents the dedicated circular economy product lines and services as part of the 360° parts and services offer
and promises sustainable, transparent and affordable products and services to our customers for all brands of
vehicles without compromising quality while preserving the environment through decreased waste and less use
of our planet’s resources
■ aims to support marketing and communication actions worldwide, replacing the former parts and services designations
of Ex-FCA Reman in North America, ex-FCA Regen in Europe and Renew for ex-PSA product lines
■ is the label for remanufacturing, repair, reuse and recycling activities and products as well as for factories or
manufacturing units acting for the circular economy in Stellantis, like the first Circular Economy Hub announced in the
Mirafiori complex, starting with three activities: parts remanufacturing, vehicle reconditioning and vehicle dismantling,
with the scope set to expand further activities and globally . PRESS RELEASE
SUSTAINera brings the opportunity to reduce the carbon footprint and raw material consumption (Life Cycle Assessment Stellantis Invests in Italian Industrial
Footprint Transformation to Develop
analysis performed according to a methodology approved by an external independent company, Sphera, shows on
Sustainable Activity
average up to 80% of raw material savings and up to 50% of non-emitted CO for remanufactured and repaired parts
2 https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
corresponding to the best- seller of similar products in Europe when compared to new parts) driving Circular Economy press-releases/2022/september/stellantis-
invests-in-italian-industrial-footprint-
Business Unit to play a key role in the carbon net zero achievement by 2038.
transformation-to-develop-sustainable-activity
The Circular Economy Business Unit roadmap includes participation in innovative startups: a participation was signed
with Amanhã Global in 2020 who provides B-Parts e-commerce platform focused on multibrand original used automotive
parts with over five million parts available in inventory. B-parts delivers its products in more than 155 countries.
In 2022, a strategic partnership led by the Circular Economy Business Unit in collaboration with Commercial Vehicle
PRESS RELEASE
Business Unit, was signed by Stellantis N.V. and Qinomic, a high-tech company specialized in innovative and sustainable
Stellantis and Qinomic Team Up to
solutions for mobility, to create a proof of concept to convert internal combustion engine light commercial vehicles to
Develop Electric Retrofitting of Light
electric drivetrain. Successful completion of this joint development in 2023 and positive customer feedback on the demo
Commercial Vehicles
cars’ performance will lead to implementation and commercialization starting in France in 2024 .
https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
press-releases/2022/december/stellantis-
The Circular Economy Business Unit is run by the Senior Vice President Global Circular Economy and reports into the
and-qinomic-team-up-to-develop-electric-
Executive Vice President for Affiliates on the Board of Directors. retrofitting-of-light-commercial-vehicles
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
STELLANTIS CIRCULAR ECONOMY MODEL AND THE 4R STRATEGY
Design for
circular Develop
economy products and
services
Buy and
manufacture
Support and
enhance use
phase
Sell, Deliver,
Maintain, Update
Materials
Recycle Manage product
end-of-life
SUSTAINera is the new label launched by the Circular Economy Business Unit. It is the recognizable identity to
promote the 4R strategy and embrace all the Company’s initiatives in terms of circular economy throughout the full
vehicle life cycle.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
Pre-owned vehicles activity GRI 301-3 GRI 103-2
Stellantis has decided to dedicate a specific Business Unit to pre-owned vehicles (PROV), with a worldwide scope, leveraging
its experience as an OEM but also a global ecosystem including companies such as Aramis Group or Autobiz. PROV Business
Unit is responsible for defining pre-owned activities strategy, targets, key projects, business guidelines and for supporting
all regional entities. It has central oversight and accountability for pre-owned activities global financial results.
Regarding companies dedicated to this business, PROV Business Unit ensures strategic oversight and consistency through
Board participation, in line with corporate governance rules, and provides them with the adequate support through
synergies with Stellantis activities. PROV Business Unit continuously looks for additional opportunities to develop new
business, including through partnerships with innovative start-ups, for example, Autoavaliar, Brazil or Fengche, China.
All Stellantis pre-owned vehicle activities aim to operate in compliance both with applicable regulations and Stellantis policies
enforcing best practices regarding safety at work (including in our reconditioning facilities), competition laws, diversity,
respect for customer data privacy protection and customer information, which is paramount to present our offers both
digitally and on physical sites . For more information refer to 6.1.7
6.1.5 POLICIES TO EXECUTE THE STRATEGY GRI 3-3 GRI 301-3
Stellantis considers materials impact at all stages of the life cycle starting from the product definition through the design
phase. The materials and circular economy policy is based on the following principles:
1. Eco-design to boost innovation and contribute to reduce material consumption and environmental impact of materials.
2. An assertive commitment to use green materials.
3. A commitment to reduce hazardous substances.
4. A commitment to responsible recyclability - as a prevention measure against material scarcity and environmental
impact of raw material sourcing - and to a responsible end-of-life treatment.
5. A commitment to provide customers with offers in the circular economy mindset: sustainable parts and service offers
to increase the lifespan of their vehicle and its parts, including High-Voltage Batteries.
1. Eco-design to boost innovation and reduce material consumption and environmental impact
of materials
From the vehicle design through each stage of the vehicle life cycle, Stellantis works to limit the vehicle’s environmental
footprint in line with applicable regulations by:
■ improving fuel consumption
■ reducing CO 2 emissions and pollutants
■ using natural resources responsibly
■ improving recyclability, repairability and remanufacturability.
In addition to supporting vehicle compliance with environmental legislation, eco-design also helps the Company stay
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
LIFE CYCLE STAGES CORE CHALLENGES
Define new automotive products and services taking into account the mobility needs of consumers
Product definition
around the world, local legislation and people’s expectations regarding the environment and safety.
Design vehicles to reduce their impact:
Design and engineering ▪ on the environment: CO emissions, local pollutants, the use of resources and recyclability;
2
▪ on society: road safety, noise pollution, traffic congestion.
Reduce the environmental impact of automobile manufacturing.
Production Improve workplace safety.
Participate in the economic and social life of local communities.
Integrate environmental challenges into supply chain and dealership network management.
Transport and sale Inform customers in a responsible manner through advertising and labelling and provide a satisfying
ownership experience with effective sales and customer service processes.
Help limit the impact associated with vehicle use: promote safe and environment friendly driving practices,
Use reduce vehicle fuel consumption, and develop increasingly effective exhaust emission control systems.
Promote the use of parts from circular economy in vehicle maintenance and repair.
Facilitate the collection and processing of end-of-life vehicles and components by specialized providers
and optimize their recyclability (pollution control, recycling, recovery and reuse). Evaluate the business
End-of-life
opportunities to create circular economy offers to our customers and optimize the effort to collect and
treat end-of-life vehicles and in particular the HVBs.
In order to be a strong participant in the circular economy market, the Company is developing internal procedures and
partnerships with industrial counterparts from the automotive industry and other sectors. This is helping to reduce the
pressure on natural resources for the different stages of the life cycle of our vehicles.
The Company is implementing a life cycle analysis procedure to evaluate and validate the selection of materials in new
projects. This action allows to improve the use of natural resources and to limit the impact of products on the environment
throughout their useful life. Each stage of the life cycle and the main environmental issues are examined . For more information refer to 6.1.7
This policy to search for new materials is being implemented in conjunction with the Company’s commitment to using
more renewable, recycled or bio-sourced materials in its vehicles.
Spare parts verified to boost safety, environmental protection and compliance
Stellantis pays close attention to the selection of material to comply with regulations, notably those related to safety. Due to
their strong visual resemblance to branded parts, customers might be misled by counterfeit parts. A poor quality of counterfeit
parts can endanger consumer safety. In the automotive field in particular, counterfeit products do not offer guarantees in
terms of safety, environmental protection or regulatory requirements. In order to allow customers, after-market and custom
networks to identify genuine parts, the various brands of Stellantis use a secure label placed on replacement parts packaging.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
2. An assertive commitment to use green materials
Stellantis is involved in the integration of recycled and natural materials in the Company’s vehicles. The integration of
recycled materials covers all materials used in vehicles. Green materials used in the vehicles can be defined in three categories:
■ recycled materials;
■ materials of natural origin such as, wood and plant fibers;
■ bio-sourced materials such as, polymers that come from renewable resources rather than the petrochemical industry.
There are several advantages to using them including reduced use of mined and fossil-based materials and fostering the
development of the recycling industries by increasing demand. Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) are conducted to check and
highlight the environmental progress of new green material solutions.
3. A commitment to reduce hazardous substances
Stellantis focuses its attention on the environment and the health and safety of their customers and employees.
Regarding hazardous substance management, the main drivers are:
■ the elimination of four heavy metals; lead, mercury, cadmium and hexavalent chromium which are regulated in Europe
by the Directive No 2000/53/EC on end-of-life vehicles and its Annex II exemptions list and by similar legislations in
other regions of the world such as Korean ELV, Enforcement Decree of the Act on Resource Circulation of Electrical and
Electronic Equipment and Vehicles
■ the compliance with the different substances legislations applicable all over the world such as EU POP and REACH
regulation, TSCA Section 5 (a) Significant New Use Rules (SNURs), China Requirements for Prohibited Substances on
Automobiles (GB/T 30512-2014). The Company has set up an organization and communication system to monitor its
partners and suppliers using the automotive industry guidelines
■ the introduction of technical solutions to improve vehicle interior air quality to support customer health, safety and
comfort in the cabin, in addition to regulatory requirements.
4a. A commitment to responsible recyclability, as a prevention measure against material
scarcity and environmental impact of raw material sourcing, to support a responsible End-of-
life treatment
The impact of recycling end-of-life vehicles (ELVs) is taken into account starting from the design phase. Vehicle materials
are selected according to increasingly strict criteria that are designed to foster the development of recovery and recycling
facilities. To ensure that its vehicles are highly recyclable, Stellantis is committed to:
■ using materials that are easy to recycle
■ reducing the variety of plastics to facilitate sorting after shredding, optimize the related recovery processes and improve
profitability
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
■ using a single family of plastics per core function so that an entire sub-assembly can be recycled without full breakdown dismantling
■ marking plastic parts with standardized codes for identification, sorting and traceability
■ introducing green materials, especially recycled materials, into vehicle design to support the emergence or development
of new markets for certain materials
■ integrating recycling considerations upstream in the innovation phases with a focus on new materials or vehicle parts.
As a participant in the International Dismantling Information System (IDIS) project, Stellantis provides recycling facilities
with disassembly instructions for our vehicle brands, including disassembly information for HVBs.
Stellantis is performing vehicle recycling studies to support vehicle end-of-life research and development and to satisfy
dismantling requirements for ELVs.
4b. A commitment to responsible End-of-life treatment
As part of the Circular Economy Business Unit, one central ELV team integrates ELV activities for Stellantis brands.
This allows synergies to be increased by:
■ exchanging information with authorities at regional and country levels
■ streamlining Stellantis ELV activities in countries in Europe and in regions outside of Europe
■ negotiating with Stellantis partners in the full ELV chain at central and local levels
■ contributing to the work by automobile associations at country, European and global levels
■ analyzing and generating new business and revenue opportunities.
5. A commitment to provide customers with offers in the circular economy mindset
■ Stellantis is using all its expertise in 4R (Reman, Reuse, Repair, Recycle) to offer to its customers a sustainable alternative
to genuine new parts extending the lifespan of products (parts and HVB).
The Company is permanently screening new suppliers offering new technologies to bring new range of sustainable
parts to the market as early as possible.
SUSTAINera, the dedicated circular economy aftermarket offer, promises sustainable, transparent and affordable
products and services to our customers for all brands of vehicles without compromising quality while preserving the
environment through decreased waste and less use of our planet’s resources. The benefits for the customers are
economical (savings up to 70% of new part price further than the opportunity to maintain the re-sell value of the
vehicle) and ecological, satisfying their willingness to purchase responsibly.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
SUSTAINera offers:
● remanufactured parts helping to reduce the cost of vehicle ownership, decrease the volume of materials heading
to landfills and lower energy consumption. The Company certifies the production of remanufactured parts,
manufactured internally or through specialized providers, in order to provide a repair solution that is equivalent to
original equipment parts and provides the same warranty conditions as new
● repair & return service through our Repairer network
● reused parts through a multibrand original reused parts e-commerce platform (B-Parts) with one year warranty
● parts recycling service: on specific components (e.g. HVB, catalytic converters) Stellantis offers collection and recycling
conformed with highest standards and, when it makes sense technically and economically, makes sure recovered
materials are reused in the automotive industry.
■ Stellantis Pre-owned vehicles policy: Stellantis pre-owned vehicles activity echoes directly the Company mission,
“powered by our diversity, we lead the way the world moves”, focusing on proposing safe, clean and affordable mobility
solutions to our customers. Our pre-owned vehicles are mainly recent, certified to meet quality standard, and more
affordable than brand new models. In addition, providing used vehicles participate in a growing circular model helping
to preserve natural resources needed to build a car.
6.1.6 ORGANIZATION AND RESOURCES
Eco-design product development organization
Integrated in the Materials & Sustainability Engineering Department, teams are dedicated to develop and monitor
sustainable eco-design worldwide. The mission is to implement eco-design process in accordance with the different
Stellantis commitments:
■ monitor and reduce the use of hazardous substances
■ increase the use of green materials
■ implement recyclable solutions
■ evaluate the environmental footprint of new solutions and complete vehicles thanks to Life Cycle Assessments
■ monitor dedicated KPIs, performance and conduct research.
In order to conduct these actions, standards and tools are defined and implemented to monitor design criteria applied by
engineering teams. In particular, standards are defined to limit and trace the use of hazardous substances or to specify the green
material content. For instance, materials specifications are defined for major plastic parts to integrate minimum of Green Materials
content. IMDS is mainly used to monitor material composition of the parts including hazardous substances identification.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
Circular Economy Business Unit
Stellantis has a Business Unit dedicated to the circular economy to build a sustainable business based on circular economy
principles.
In 2022 the first phase of training on circular economy activities, impact and line to Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan
was rolled out. Other learning initiatives, such as Climate School, underline the Company purpose to raise employees'
awareness and commitment to sustainability.
The Business Unit uses common resources from central or regional teams including engineering, quality, purchasing or
manufacturing, after-sales, suppliers and other providers. Amanhã Global, a subsidiary of Stellantis, has its own resources
to support its growth plan.
The size of the team is growing significantly to support circular economy strategy and business growth.
High-Voltage Batteries (HVB) Management
The Company is implementing collection and treatment procedures for its High-Voltage Batteries (HVB) used in hybrid
and electric vehicles sold in Europe and other regions. Stellantis offers longer lifespan mobility to their customers by
developing repair and remanufacturing processes. Stellantis is also targeting to extend the battery lifespan through
Second-life solutions outside of the automotive sector for energy storage including those through its Joint Venture with
NHOA (ex Engie EPS) Free2move eSolution. Stellantis is responsible for the recycling of its HVBs and contracts with
specific operators selected to collect and recycle HVBs from our plants, research and development sites, dealer network
and end-of-life vehicles according to existing local regulations. The battery technology in electric and hybrid vehicles
requires specific handling methods.
In order to support BEV customers, Stellantis can provide them a State of Health (SoH) document that describes the current
status of the degradation of the battery as an indicative information. The document also provides recommendations on
how to optimize battery life and range.
6.1.7 MAIN INITIATIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND RESULTS GRI 3-3 GRI 301-3 GRI 306-2
6.1.7.1 Main initiatives to support Eco-design and reduce material consumption: the LCA approach
Stellantis conducts Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) on its vehicles and components. These studies analyze the multi-
criteria environmental footprint of a vehicle, its components and materials design. The entire product life cycle is taken
into account from raw material extraction to manufacture, use and end-of-life. The methodology used for LCAs refers
to ISO standards 14040/44 and critical reviews are conducted with external experts. The last critical review focused on
battery electric vehicle DS3 Crossback e-tense performed by a third-party reviewer panel.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
The results of life cycle assessments help to improve the vehicles’ environmental record:
■ highlighting the environmental advantage of one innovative solution compared to another, and more broadly, the
overall environmental impact of a product;
■ identifying possible pollution transfers from one phase of the life cycle to another;
■ highlighting core environmental impacts;
■ choosing more environmentally friendly technologies and materials.
Main Indicators of Environmental Impacts Monitored by Stellantis
Global warming potential in kg CO-eq: characterizes the average increase in greenhouse gases emissions 2
that contribute to global warming (CO, CH, NO, etc.).
2 4 2
Acidification potential in kg SO-eq: characterizes the increase in the content of acidifying substances that
IMPACT ON AIR 2
cause acid rain and decay of some forests (SO, etc.). 2
Photochemical ozone creation potential in kg ethene eq.: characterizes the phenomena leading to the
formation of ozone which have harmful effects on human health and on ecosystems (VOCs, etc.).
Eutrophication potential in kg phosphate eq.: characterizes the introduction of nutrients such as nitrogen
IMPACT ON WATER
and phosphate compounds that promote the growth of certain algae (NO, etc.).
2
Potential for the depletion of natural mineral resources in kg antimony eq. (Sb): aims to measure the
extraction of mineral resources considered to be non-renewable regarding their reserves on Earth
IMPACT ON NATURAL
RESOURCES Potential for the depletion of fossil resources in megajoules (MJ): aims to measure the extraction of fossil
fuels regarding their reserves on Earth.
LCAs can be used in the innovation phase to consider environmental impact as early as possible. The analyses are usually
conducted at the end of product design and include recyclability and critical materials. LCA results can also be used in the
planning of future vehicles.
Former PSA was a founding member of the EcoSD network, an association whose main purpose is to foster interaction
between researchers and industry players to create and disseminate Eco-Sustainable Design (EcoSD) expertise in France
and beyond, thereby promoting France’s EcoSD expertise internationally. The Company participates in collaborative
projects with industry and laboratory members of the network, with the support of the French Agency for Ecological
Transition (ADEME). Achievements of these projects include:
■ an assessment of the methodology used to measure the “water footprint” of an entire vehicle
■ the creation of a tool which takes environmental criteria into account in the design of traction batteries for electric vehicles
■ the development of a guide with good practices for LCA practitioners on using mineral depletion indicators and on
taking into account material criticality issues
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
■ the publication of a “White Book” with edition of Presses des Mines, on the application of monetarization in LCA for
eco-design purposes
■ an assessment of the environmental profile of the data in the context of connected vehicles
■ an assessment of the environmental profile of charging infrastructures for BEVs in the context of long-distance drive.
In addition, STELLANTIS participates to different partnerships:
■ OSCAR, a project funded by National French Research Association (ANR) and launched in 2019, develops a new
approach to eco-design for complex systems (battery, innovative powertrain, etc.). It allows, through a wide exploration
in the upstream phases of a design project, to identify optimal solutions with sustainable development by optimizing
environmental, technical and attractive performance.
■ CarE-Service, a project funded by the European Commission whose object is the valorisation of the material flows
deriving from the end-of-life Vehicles (ELV) management of electric and hybrid vehicles with a circular economy
approach and with particular focus on metals, technopolymers and batteries.
■ IRIS Initiative which is a collaborative initiative coordinated by Carbone 4, focusing on strategic foresight and scenario
planning, that brings together 15 major companies from various sectors, as well as research institutions. The objective
is to build shared and rigorous tools (foresight scenarios) and methods that aims at enabling companies to design
"physically" realistic transition pathways and to collectively anticipate the disruptions induced by planetary boundaries
issues (resources, climate).
Ph.D. thesis work has been also conducted in France, focused on the development of a method to optimize environmental
impacts of automotive product and service systems such as carsharing. Another Ph.D. candidate began work in 2020
regarding the development of a method for implementing CSR KPIs in the design phase of vehicles. In South America region,
a Doctorate level study intends to develop a model for the application of the LCA for vehicles to reinterpret the environmental
gains brought by Route 2030 in a cradle to grave perspective, going beyond the use stage and carbon emissions.
The Company aims to implement life cycle assessments on new vehicles. For core technological changes or strategic
innovations, studies are conducted to assess developments of the environmental impact from these technologies.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
SIMPLIFIED DIAGRAM OF A VEHICLE LIFE-CYCLE In 2022, LCAs covered
69%
MULTICRITERIA versus 62% in 2021
APPROACH:
of the total fleet sold
Distribution
Global Production
warming
Fuel and
electricity
Consumption
Air
acidification
Use
Photochemical Raw Maintenance
ozone creation
Materials
Water ELV
eutrophication Processing Reuse
parts
Depletion of
mineral resources
Materials Energy
Recycling Recovery
Examples of the application of LCAs
These analyses are carried out using software linked to environmental databases that makes it possible to calculate a
product’s environmental impact. The goal is to compare the environmental impact from a new model compared to the
previous generation. The impact of new electrified powertrain is also evaluated. Examples of vehicles that have been
assessed during the past year:
■ Alfa Romeo Tonale diesel and MHEV
■ Dodge Hornet gasoline
■ DS4 gasoline and eTense
■ Fiat 500 gasoline, MHEV and electric
■ Fiat Fastback flex fuel
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
■ Fiat Fiorino flex fuel
■ Maserati Grecale gasoline and MHEV
■ Opel Astra gasoline and PHEV
■ New Peugeot 308 III gasoline and PHEV
RESULT OF THE LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENT DONE ON THE PEUGEOT 508
Global warming
100%
Peugeot 508 - 2011
80%
Peugeot 508 - 2018
60%
Depletion Air
of mineral 40% acidification
resources
20%
Water Photochemical
eutrophication ozone creation
6.1.7.2 Main initiatives to boost the integration of green materials GRI 301-2
Stellantis plans to integrate a green materials monitoring system focused on recycled and natural materials in new
vehicles. We are focusing on recycled polymers as an important part of the circular economy and increasing our research
efforts. The wider application of green materials requires the development of robust supply chains and more research on
new materials. To meet its targets, the Company is actively selecting and certifying materials that offer the best cost and
technical application, thereby creating a portfolio of solutions for future vehicle projects. The use of green materials will
continue to be included in the engineering design guidelines and in the specifications for supplying parts and components.
The use of green materials is also one of the selection criteria when choosing suppliers.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
Stellantis is involved in a large number of scientific partnerships to boost the development of the green materials industry
and expand the use of these materials in vehicles. In 2022 Stellantis participated in:
■ RUSTINE project: extruded recycling for the recovery of polymer waste sponsored by Fonds Unique Interministériel
(FUI) with industrial and academic partners (Galloo Plastics, Wipak, Nutripack, Umet and Armines). The objective is to
develop a process for decontaminating plastic waste from different sectors, in particular automobile. Stellantis aims to
develop validated products with recycled polyolefin materials for interior parts without losing the properties of virgin
materials, in particular odor and Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs).
■ FOREST-COMP project: supported by Italian Research Ministry has studied combination of bio-based polymeric
matrices and reinforcement with functionalized natural fibres to develop a large variety of green plastic with a wide
range of thermo-mechanical and surface properties which make them flexible for different applications. A particular
focus has been addressed to bio-PET and bio-PUR for interior trimming applications (carpets, roof panel, door panel)
and acoustic insulation.
■ REINVENT project: supported by European Commission has developed and combined bio based materials and fibres
for replacing the petroleum based polyurethane insulation products used vehicles interior foamed products like layers
for car ceilings, dashboards and seat covers.
■ NOVUM project: supported by European Commission, aimed at validation of new injection molding process with new
bio-based materials made of cellulose with materials properties as: i) material strength / mechanical properties at the
same level or better than commercial (PLA and wood composite) references; ii) higher cellulose content (total cellulose
content 50-60%); iii) 100% renewable resources.
■ RECIPLAST: a project funded by the Piedmont Region as part of the Bioeconomy Platform whose focus is to improve
the eco-sustainability of plastic used in the packaging and automotive sectors, through the development of processes
of separation, recycling and enhancement of those fractions of post-consumer and industrial waste that today present
critical issues in their capacity of recyclability and reuse.
■ ASR project: Supported by U.S. Council on Automotive Research (USCAR) aimed at validating the recycling of
Automotive Shredder Residues (ASR) by Chemical Recycling into usable polyester resins targeted for interior trim and
second surface support applications.
The latest vehicles brought to the market illustrate the results obtained on the inclusion of materials that are recycled or
from natural sources. The following examples show the diversity of applications validated on the last vehicles from the
different brands in the main regions of commercialization:
In Enlarged Europe:
■ Jeep Renegade (Upland Special Edition) in the interior trims of the dashboard has adopted recycled PC/ABS and an
extensive use of textiles based on recycle PET is done.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
■ Peugeot 408 integrates 100% of post-consumer P/E-I in the Mudguard components and a combination of 95%
post-consumer and 5% post-industry polypropylene in the bumper.
In North America:
■ Jeep Wrangler uses glass-filled recycled nylon materials for mirror support brackets in Jeep Wrangler "doors off" model.
■ Jeep Grand Cherokee uses recycled polycarbonate in foglamp lenses and low-emission acetal (POM) materials for
glovebox door dampers.
■ 3.5L Engines use recycled content post-consumer glass/mineral nylon for intake manifolds.
■ New vehicles to integrate 100% post consumer recycled PET used in fabrics for anti-squeak performance in seating.
In South America:
■ Fiat Fastback extended the use of polypropylene and wood fibers composite materials to cargo load floor in the trunk.
■ Citroën C3 achieved a historic result for the region with a high mass of green materials applied in eleven different
applications, with emphasis on applications in recycled polypropylene.
6.1.7.3 Main initiatives to reduce hazardous substances
Regulatory requirements regarding the use of hazardous substances are factored into the phases of the vehicle life
cycle. We work closely with suppliers on achieving compliance of vehicles and parts sold. To ensure the traceability of
regulated substances contained in vehicle parts and materials, the Company collects information from suppliers using
the automotive standard International Material Data System (IMDS) tool according to the Global Automotive Declarable
Substance List (GADSL).
Stellantis has set the goal of minimizing the use of substances of concern by working upstream during the new material
research and innovation phases which means in Europe for example considering REACH Candidate list and anticipating
the future restrictions introduced by REACH Annexes XIV, XVII and by Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP) regulation.
Examples include the replacement of diethylhexyl phtalate (DEHP) which is used as a plasticizer in PVC sheaths for wiring
harnesses. Other regulations on chemical substances such as Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP) and Biocides which
affect part design and production are also monitored for compliance.
Concerning Vehicle interior air quality, in addition to comply with legal regulations Stellantis has introduced technical
solutions to support customer health, safety and comfort in the cabin. These include filters for air flow into the passenger
compartment and limits on volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in the materials used inside the cabin. Where applicable,
the air in the passenger compartment is checked for VOCs and odors before the vehicle goes to the market. Stellantis is
working on new developments accounting for specific material characteristics, surface treatments and with antimicrobial
properties e.g., in FIAT 500 Red Edition as well as filters to improve the quality of the interior air, limiting also the
development of micro-organisms.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.1.7.4 Main initiatives to improve responsible recyclability and to support end-of-life treatment SASB-440b.3 GRI 301-2
Stellantis implements actions from the ecodesign stage to the end-of-Life of its vehicles
Through its choice of materials, Stellantis aims to promote the recyclability of its products, to obtain the homologation of
its vehicles where regulatory relevant, the success of their sales and their effective recycling at the end of their life.
One of our actions in this field fall within the framework of European Directive No. 2000/53/EC of September 18, 2000
regarding end-of-life vehicles (ELV) which sets vehicle design requirements and operational processing requirements for
the vehicle at the end of its service life.
All the Company’s vehicles
■ From the design stage, recyclability is taken into account. Stellantis has implemented the processes needed to fulfill in Europe are
the 95% recovery requirement in vehicle weight, and 85% reusing or recycling materials with traceability processes for
95%
information on the weight of materials, substances and the corresponding assessments and analyses. In accordance recoverable
with EU Directive 2005/64/CE, audits are conducted by a third-party regarding the traceability processes for information
on the weight of materials, substances and the corresponding assessments and analyses.
85%
recyclable
■ At the end-of-life, Stellantis implements three types of recovery for end-of-life vehicles: reuse of parts, recycling of
materials and energy recovery. Since 2015, vehicles in Europe have to be 95% recovered and 85% recycled or recyclable.
In order to meet its obligations, the Company has an internal horizontal network, that provides the framework to
manage the upstream and downstream processes. The two activities include: upstream, which seeks eco-design
solutions, and downstream, which involves services for the collection and treatment of end-of-life vehicles. This
work is conducted in close collaboration with Company partners such as suppliers, recycling operators and vehicle
manufacturer associations.
6.1.7.5 Main initiatives, achievements and results on parts recycling
Stellantis recycling activity is currently available in four regions: Enlarged Europe, North and South America, Middle East and Africa.
In 2022, more than 1.7 million parts have been recycled including catalytic converters, fascias/plastic bumpers, alloy wheels,
High-Voltage Batteries.
6.1.7.6 Main initiatives to improve end-of-life vehicle (ELV) treatment
SASB-440b.2
In 2000, the EU End-of-Life Vehicle Directive began requiring all vehicle manufacturers and importers to take back
vehicles from the last owners or holders when the cars have reached end-of-life. For that purpose and by following
the different national requirements, the two former companies (FCA and PSA) have built take-back networks in
EU member states where they were operating. The systems vary in different countries between implementation and
maintenance by the manufacturers themselves, assigning a service provider on their behalf or participating in a collective
take-back process, where required by law.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
In France, we implemented an Individual System, which uses industrial partnerships of a high standard, both technically
and financially. They track ELVs and ensure that the overall recovery rate is achieved. At the end of 2021, the Company’s
industrial partners were working with networks of 436 certified dismantling companies for former PSA Brands, and 612
for former FCA Brands, with 222 common dismantling companies.
In Regions outside Europe, the Company is actively analyzing the regional and local market situation as well as ELV-
related legislation. The Company adopts and develops strategies and plans for implementation depending on the local
and regional requirement and constraints.
■ U.S.: the environmental effects of vehicles at the end-of-life stage are reduced using a market-driven recycling
infrastructure, making automobiles and their components among the most recycled consumer products in that country.
■ Asia, some countries have developed momentum around waste legislation. Stellantis is cooperating with partners in
China on batteries recycling.
■ India, we have a business partnership to support the development of Waste Law to treat ELVs and HVBs.
■ Africa, Stellantis implemented a study with Morocco’s government to improve the collection and treatment of ELV.
Individual System to manage End-of-Life Vehicles (ELV):
In 2022, Stellantis collected and processed with an internal Individual System 19.692 of ELVs in France for all Brands. These
accounted for 23,047 tons of material recovered, of which 88% was recycled.
Actions Plan to collect and treat abandoned ELVs:
Stellantis made a major contribution to piloting the action plan for the re-absorption of historic stocks of abandoned
ELVs in the French overseas territories in which the French Environmental Code applies (Guadeloupe, Saint Martin,
Martinique, French Guyana, Reunion Island, Saint Pierre-et-Miquelon Island and Mayotte). This plan, which addresses
the environmental and health issues that arise when their last owner abandons vehicles, resulted in the signing of a
framework agreement between manufacturers on October 24, 2018. At the end of 2022, this action plan was active in
French overseas departments with 29,702 abandoned ELVs collected since the program started in 2018.
6.1.7.7 Main initiatives to provide customers with offers in the circular economy mindset:
sustainable spare parts, verified pre-owned cars.
■ Affordable maintenance with replacement parts for all budgets in a circular economy mindset
● Stellantis provides an extensive range of spare parts coming from the circular economy, under the SUSTAINera label.
It is an eco-responsible complement to the Stellantis spare parts offer to provide customers with solutions that
match their needs, budget, vehicle age or brand of vehicle.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
● The SUSTAINera parts and accessories program implements the 4R strategy through:
■ a full range of remanufactured parts;
■ a multi-brand original reused parts catalog;
■ a “repair and return” service for multi-brand automatic gearboxes and complex electronic components;
■ recycling of parts and materials coming from the production, maintenance and end-of-life vehicle treatment.
The total range of sustainable parts covers more than 13% of customers aftersales needs and aims to help reduce
the cost of vehicle ownership, decrease the volume of materials heading to landfills and lower energy consumption.
● Remanufactured Parts: Remanufactured product lines include parts such as starters, alternators, brake calipers,
electronic control modules, high-voltage battery packs, torque converters, steering, suspension and engine and
transmission product categories. Depending on the part, the average raw-material usage is reduced between
60% to 95%, while CO emissions are reduced between 30% to 80% compared with new part production (values
2
determined according to a methodology approved by an independent company - Sphera). The Company certifies the
production of remanufactured parts, manufactured internally or through specialized providers, in order to provide
a sustainable solution that is equivalent to original equipment parts and provides the same warranty conditions as
new parts.
REMAN offer has been launched in Brazil, South America in Q2 2022. The first stage of the program covers
approximately 100 part numbers already available in approximately 1,000 dealerships in Brazil, of Citroën, Fiat,
Jeep and Peugeot brands, some of the Stellantis brands in the country. The five product lines available at launch are:
starter motors, alternators, steering boxes, turbochargers and automatic gearboxes. The expectation is to expand
the remanufactured parts line to include injectors and high-pressure pumps. Overall worldwide key figures:
37 product lines including batteries, representing more than 13.000 part numbers.
● Reused Parts: In 2020 Stellantis invested in Amanhã Global allowing a multibrand re-used parts offer to customers
including B2C and B2B though an advanced e-commerce platform. In 2022, there were sales in 155 countries.
● “Repair & Return” service: extending the lifespan of complex products: Since 2011, Stellantis has been offering a
“Repair & Return” service for both automatic gearboxes and complex electronic products. This has been expanded to
include other repair services including HVB through a network of 21 e-repair centers around the world.
In 2022, Stellantis repair range includes 12 product lines.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
Revenue generation from all circular economy
As part of the Stellantis Dare Forward strategic plan presented in March 2022 and of the target to be carbon net zero by
2038, Stellantis created a dedicated Business Unit to develop circular economy activities. This Circular Economy Business
Unit is mainly focusing on Remanufactured, Repaired, and Reused Parts business, and on developing the Recycling loop
for Stellantis parts and vehicles. The Dare Forward ambition for Circular Economy Business Unit is to reach € 2 billion total
revenue generation by 2030 on this scope of activities.
The dealer network, promotes circular economy through various offerings: remanufactured parts, repair services in
Europe and reused parts from end-of-life vehicles dismantling. In 2022, the Business Unit also launched SUSTAINera as
the Stellantis Circular Economy Label for all reman, repair, reuse, recycled activities. In terms of geographical extension, the
Circular Economy Business Unit started to develop a new remanufactured parts offer in South America.
In addition, in September 2022, Stellantis announced the creation of its first industrial hub in Italy which is dedicated to
circular economy in order to support the growth ambition in this business.
■ Developing pre-owned vehicles activities
● In 2021 Stellantis continued to develop its Certified Pre-Owned (CPO) policy with the deployment in G10 countries
of its Spoticar CPO Program for all mainstream brands and DS Certified for its DS premium brand. Spoticar was
also launched in Turkey, and a dedicated program is in preparation for Alfa Romeo brand. A CPO program provides
customers a label for pre-owned cars, which are checked, reconditioned, certified and warranted. On Spoticar and
DS Certified websites, Stellantis provides product information, pictures and when available videos to make sure
customers are fully informed about the car they are looking at.
● Alongside with CPO programs, Stellantis continues to develop customer satisfaction measurement for our pre-
owned vehicles customers: already active in France, this program will be activated in all G10 countries in 2022 to
ensure our dealers provide to customers the best possible experience, with the same level of attention than towards
new cars customers.
● Stellantis also supported the development of multi-brand B2C business Aramis Group, through a successful IPO
(Initial Public Offering) on Euronext stock market in June 2021. This allows Aramis Group to sustain its European
growth, in France, Spain, Belgium, the UK since early 2021 and potentially in other markets. Aramis Group provides
customers with a top-level digital experience, proposing affordable refurbished cars of all makes. Aramis Group
refurbishment facilities are managed in order to preserve resources (70% of waste generated by refurbishing
activities were recycled in 2020) and is committed to further reduce the environmental impact of these activities.
Aramis governance is also compliant with market best practices, with independent members of the Board, a balanced
gender representation and the creation of dedicated committees of the Board for nominations, compensations and
benefits as well as for CSR. The Company is committed to develop and retain talents (70% of the workforce trained
in 2020, Great place to work program), to achieve maximum safety at work and to embrace team diversity.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
IMPACT MEASUREMENT OF THE ELECTRIFICATION STRATEGY
Electrification is likely to increase the global demand for the materials for the manufacturing of Low-Emission
Vehicles (LEVs): mainly cobalt, lithium and nickel. To preserve the natural resources as well as to mitigate the risk of
scarcity, Stellantis works to reduce its consumption of materials in LEV manufacturing through the implementation of
a full circular economy battery life cycle management starting by extending the lifespan of the battery for automotive
usage through repair and remanufacturing, then implementing battery Second-life solutions.
In 2022, 2,261 of the batteries used in Stellantis’ vehicles had a life cycle management solution: 149 were repaired,
1,032 were remanufactured, 426 were used in Second-life projects, and 654 were recycled. When the batteries are no
longer suited for vehicle use, they are reused for energy stationary storage purposes. The company also collaborates
with qualified recycling companies, with the objective to recycle with the most efficient process a growing number of
batteries in Europe and North America.
The Company also works to increase battery energy density which would decrease the quantity of raw materials
needed per unit of energy. Stellantis conducts research and development activities for solid-state batteries and
chemical compositions for other raw materials that are not considered critical. From 2024, Stellantis plans to base its
electrification strategy on two battery technologies, both without cobalt . For more information refer to 2.5.3.2.4
To secure lithium availability, Stellantis signed two memorandums of understanding for new direct off-take with lithium
geothermal partners in North America and Europe. The Company’s Tier 1 battery suppliers have also contracted lithium suppliers
in Europe. For the longer term, Stellantis prepares to set up off-take agreements of recycled raw materials with recyclers.
6.1.7.8 Specific initiatives related to High-Voltage Batteries (HVB)
When HVBs cannot be used in vehicles, Stellantis HVBs can be processed in up to three solutions:
■ Repair and Remanufacturing
Repair and Remanufacturing extend the use phase and avoid the premature recycling of High-Voltage Batteries
(HVBs). To reinforce the sustainability of its HVBs, for the new generation developed for its brands, Stellantis is
expanding a repair and remanufacturing process. If the battery fails, it will either be repaired in the network or sent to
a remanufacturing center. The repaired battery will then be reinstalled in the vehicle from which it had been removed
whereas the remanufactured one will be used in another used electric vehicle to maintain the electric mobility of the
Company’s customers as long as possible.
In 2022 we confirmed the extension of E-Repair Centers Regional coverage to 21 centers, strengthening the presence in
Enlarged Europe and opening in India and Asia Pacific region.
■ Second-life
Stellantis is also continuing to work on solutions to repurpose for reuse HVBs in non-automotive business in order to
use batteries as long as possible before sending them to recycling, prioritizing Second-life activities.
To study the ability of current next-generation EV batteries to be reused in Second-life for stationary storage applications,
Stellantis is exploring the reuse of these batteries by designing, building and testing electric stationary storage demonstrators,
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
At the same time, Stellantis is still evaluating partnership opportunities with utility companies in order to design, build
and operate a large-scale pilot of an energy stationary storage facility.
In 2022 Stellantis has collaborated with several utility companies and battery integrators by providing Second-life
batteries and collaborating with them in designing and creating energy storage facilities.
■ Recycling Process
In 2015, Peugeot, Citroën and DS have signed a contract for the European markets. Our partner obtained the silver
medal for its CSR performance awarded in 2019 by the organization EcoVadis. At the end of 2020, former PSA extended
this partnership to Opel and Vauxhall brands for the new-generation of PHEV and BEV traction batteries. In order to recycle
higher battery volumes and optimize the associated logistics costs, Stellantis selected local recyclers by geographical zones.
The same process is planned with the former FCA brands, which previously developed local solutions by country.
In 2021, the partner’s recycling rates were 69.3% for Lithium-Ion (Li-ion) batteries and 83.8% for Nickel Metal Hydride
(Ni MH) batteries. The results for 2022 are not yet available at the time of publication of this report. These rates are
significantly higher than the 50% regulatory thresholds for recycling efficiency. This agreement covers the dealership
networks and industrial sites for all current Li-ion and Ni MH batteries across all European marketing countries.
In terms of battery legislation, the Company is actively involved with this area of expertise via the European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association (ACEA). Outside Europe, particularly in China, Stellantis makes an active contribution in
partnership with local Joint Ventures.
CIRCULAR ECONOMY OF HIGH-VOLTAGE BATTERIES
E-REPAIR EXPERTISE
REPAIR
CENTERS
BATTERY
REMAN
EXPERTISE CENTER
RAW NEW ELECTRIC REPAIR REPURPOSE FOR
MATERIALS BATTERY VEHICLE CENTER REUSE REUSE (SECOND-LIFE)
IN ENERGY STORAGE
LOCAL or CENTRAL
RECYCLE
SERVICE PROVIDERS
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.1.8 DETAILED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS GRI 301-1
6.1.8.1 Total weight and percentage of materials purchased for vehicle production by type
Materials purchased for vehicle production Weight of materials used (t) Materials (%)
2022 7,870,979 75%
Steel
2021 8,871,486 77%
2022 1,021,575 10%
Light Alloys
2021 949,558 8%
2022 63,814 1%
Cast Iron
2021 62,701 1%
2022 458,861 4%
Other Metals
2021 590,403 5%
2022 287,936 3%
Elastomer
2021 303,135 3%
2022 766,027 7%
Polymers
2021 666,468 6%
2022 29,279 —%
Fluids
2021 29,906 0,3%
2022 35 —%
Other
2021 31 —%
2022 10,498,506
TOTAL
2021 11,473,688
6.1.8.2 Availability of the SUSTAINera 4 R offer on parts in the regions
Regions REMAN REPAIR REUSE RECYCLE
Enlarge Europe
North America
South America
Middle East and Africa
India and Asia Pacific
China
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.1.8.3 Availability of SUSTAINera solutions to optimize High-Voltage Batteries lifespan and end-of-life in the regions
Regions REMAN REPAIR SECOND-LIFE RECYCLE
Enlarge Europe
North America
South America
Middle East and Africa
India and Asia Pacific
China
6.2 Vehicle impact on air quality
6.2.1 CONTEXT AND STELLANTIS POSITION GRI 3-3
CSR issue/challenge #15: Vehicle impact on air quality
15 Vehicle impact on air quality
The effects of atmospheric pollutants on climate, ecosystems, natural habitats and agriculture as well as human and
animal health are a major public concern. Reducing vehicle emissions necessitates substantial research and development
investments on technologies by vehicle manufacturers which can have a direct impact on their financial performance and
profitability.
Given the frequent media coverage, such effects reflect an important reputational issue for automobile companies. Air
quality and associated public health concerns have resulted in the introduction of local, state, country and international
regulations to control atmospheric pollutant emissions in many areas of the world, including a wide variety of markets
into which Stellantis sells its products.
In addition, there are a growing number of cities that impose traffic restrictions that inhibit certain vehicles’ operation,
both by geography and by time of day.
Stellantis continues its significant efforts to produce vehicles that comply with regulations and at the same time meet
consumer demands, including the growing demands for sustainable mobility. This includes current and near-term plans
to increase our portfolio of electrified vehicles. Stellantis is also developing advanced emission control technologies to
minimize environmental impact of internal combustion engines. These combined actions support our goal of reducing
emissions of our products.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
Company’s public position
The Company is committed to continuing its longstanding efforts to reduce the environmental impact from our products,
which at a minimum requires us to develop and produce vehicles that meet applicable emission standards worldwide.
Stellantis supports efforts to cooperate with the relevant public institutions/governmental agencies in the review and
improvement of regulations in order to reflect the improved technology while maintaining a reasonable balance between
sound science, availability of technologies, consumer demand, societal benefits, and affordability.
The Company recognizes the role of public institutions and/or national and local governments supporting a green transition
in electrified mobility including the use of government incentives to facilitate that transition.
6.2.2 FORWARD-LOOKING VISION AND TARGETS
Commitment scoreboard
CSR ISSUE/ VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT RESULTS
CHALLENGE
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term 2022 2021
(End of Strategic Plan)
Vehicle impact on Meaningfully reduce Share of ZEV* in global 2025: 2030: 2038: EU: 11.2% of EU: 8% of
15
air quality impact on air quality by sales mix (focus on U.S. EU: 34% of EU: 100% of EU: 100% of Passenger Cars Passenger Cars
Owner: Chief focusing on development and EU) Passenger Cars Passenger Cars Passenger Cars U.S.: n.a. U.S.: n.a.
Engineering Officer of a wide range of U.S.: 14% of U.S.: 50% of U.S.: 100% of
affordable Zero Emission
Passenger Cars + Passenger Cars + Passenger Cars +
Vehicles (ZEV)
Light Duty Trucks Light Duty Trucks Light Duty Trucks
Percentage of nameplates 2025: 2030: 2038: EU: 14% of EU: 15% of
with ZEV* offering (focus EU: 78% of EU: 100% of EU: 100% of Passenger Cars Passenger Cars
on U.S. and EU) Passenger Cars Passenger Cars Passenger Cars U.S.: n.a. U.S.: n.a.
U.S.: 59% of U.S.: 100% of U.S.: 100% of
Passenger Cars + Passenger Cars + Passenger Cars +
Light Duty Trucks Light Duty Trucks Light Duty Trucks
*ZEV = Zero Emission Vehicles (Battery Electric Vehicles)
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.2.3 IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
6.2.3.1 Risks
Global emissions standards continue to become increasingly stringent. The Company is committed to working toward
achieving the standards through innovation and development and is aware of the concerns regarding potential health
issues. Stellantis is aware that there are risks associated with the changing requirements and associated costs related to
the product development. Product environmental innovations are essential for the achievement of such standards. These
innovations help prevent delayed vehicle launches and the associated financial risks. The annual risk of loss of revenue for
For more risk information refer to table
Stellantis, according to internal estimates, is €1.2 to €2.4 billion due to unwanted delayed vehicle launches .
IMPACTS OF CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS ON
STELLANTIS CSR ISSUES in 2.3.1
The U.S. has the most stringent pollutant emission standards. However, with the introduction of the Real Driving Emission
(RDE) regulations in Europe and other markets that borrow European Union regulations, the global emissions compliance
standards are reducing ever closer to the U.S. standards. An example is the European Union’s (EU) adoption of Euro
6e, coupled with the expected introduction of Euro 7 standards from 2025. In the U.S., the fleet emissions for light duty
vehicles will be required to meet 30 mg/mile of NO and Non-Methane Organic Gases (NMOG) and the LEV IV ACC 2
x
regulation by 2025. Brazil will launch the PL8 emission standard in 2025. The release of the first draft of China 7 standards
is projected in 2023.
Current and future regional emission standards
UNITED STATES EUROPE CHINA OTHER REGIONS
Already California’s low emission Euro 6d Real Driving National Stage 6a (China 6a) India: Bharat Stage VI (BS VI)
compliant Vehicle II (LEV II) Emission (RDE) LDV emission standards stage 1
standards nationwide
Environmental protection National Stage 6b (China 6b) Brazil: Proconve L7
Agency (EPA) Tier 2 LDV emission standards in
five cities and provinces
Argentina: Euro 5
South Korea: California LEV
III for gasoline, Euro 6d
RDE for diesel
Middle East: Standards
based from Euro 2 to Euro 5
Phase-in for California’s LEV III Euro 6e Real Driving National Stage 6b (China 6b) India: Bharat Stage VI (BS VI)
compliance standards, closely aligned Emission (RDE) standard LDV (July 2023) stage 2 (April 2023)
with EPA’s Tier 3 (September 2023)
Brazil: Proconve L8
(January 2025)
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
Our European vehicles are capable of meeting the Euro 6e targets ahead of the requirement date.
MAIN CURRENT AND FUTURE EXPECTED REGULATIONS LIMITS
NMOG
EU Euro 7 (draft)
70 mg/km EU Euro 7 (draft)
China 6b
60 U.S. ULEV 50
U.S. SULEV 30
50 U.S. SULEV 20
40
China 6b
U.S.
ULEV 50
30
U.S. 20
SULEV 30
U. S.
SULEV 20 10
CO NOx
mg/km 1,250 1,000 750 500 250 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 mg/km
(mg/km) NO [mg/km] NMOG [mg/km] CO [mg/km]
x
U.S. SULEV* 20 12 622
U.S. SULEV 30 19 622
U.S. ULEV 50** 31 1057
EU Euro 7 (draft)*** 60 68 **** 500
China 6b 35 35 **** 500
* SULEV: Super Ultra Low Emission Vehicles
** ULEV: Ultra Low Emission Vehicles
*** Euro 7 data refers to the draft published on November 10, 2022
**** Non-Methane Hydrocarbons (NMHC) emissions
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.2.3.2 Opportunities
Air quality requirements can be seen as both business and reputation opportunities for Stellantis.
Stellantis is continuing to improve the Company’s image and the image of the brands by providing vehicles with the
advanced technologies that are required in the markets with the most stringent regulations, to other countries and
markets.
Opportunities to further develop the business and elevate the company’s image include:
■ Increase offerings of battery electric and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, as well as improved emissions for internal
combustion engine vehicles. For instance, eight battery electric and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles were launched in
2022 and 14 are expected to be launched in 2023.
■ Develop hydrogen Internal Combustion Engines (ICE) solutions for Heavy and Light Duty Commercial vehicles.
■ Extend the vehicle portfolio with fuel cell technology within LCV segment.
■ Support regulations improvements and incentives for market acceptance of low emission vehicles and vehicles with
electrified powertrains. For instance, one vehicle under Euro 3 standards emits the same mass of particulate emissions
as 100 vehicles under Euro 5-6.
■ Develop a patent portfolio of technologies (electric heated catalyst).
■ Sell advanced engine technology licenses to competitors.
IMPACT MEASUREMENT OF THE ELECTRIFICATION STRATEGY
Low Emission Vehicles (LEVs) generate significantly lower emissions compared to ICE vehicles. Therefore, the sale
of LEVs enables Stellantis to be more readily compliant with emissions regulations worldwide, but especially notably
in the EU, in the U.S., in China and Brazil). Indeed, increasingly stringent and complex regulations set emission caps
for certain pollutants and define restricted traffic zones. Furthermore, the sale of LEVs engages a virtuous circle: it
provides Stellantis with reputational benefits while responding to evolving customers’ expectations and governmental/
public institutions focus on improving air quality. Increasing our customers’ demand and desire for our lower-emitting
and non-emitting vehicles reduces our overall impact on air quality. These are fundamental aspects of the rationale
behind the company’s electrification policy.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.2.4 GOVERNANCE AND DECISION BODIES TO LEAD ACTIONS
Consistent with the commitment of and made by our management, Stellantis aim is to ensure compliance from technical and
legal points of view, as well for governmental emission certification/ issuing of the type approval to allow our vehicles to be sold.
Employees involved in meeting compliance and regulations of emissions are expected to know and respect not only
the requirements imposed by applicable laws and regulations, but also the applicable internal rules and processes we
use to help achieve such compliance. To support this, employees have access to processes that use and make available
information databases, technical and engineering guidelines, networks of meetings and governance, reference documents,
and training materials.
Emission compliance committee governance is used, in the form of engineering working groups associated with
management oversight regional committees, to report emission compliance operation and policy decisions to the Global
Technical Safety & Regulatory Compliance Manager and other Senior Management in Engineering, Planning, Legal, and
related organizations, regarding tailpipe emissions, CO emissions, hybrid and battery-electric vehicles all-electric range,
2
evaporative emissions, and On-Board Diagnostics.
These regional committees, all structured of the same manner, are autonomous and include core and contributing
members, which are independent and cross-functional, and which allow them to make objective and well-researched
decisions. Decisions are made by considering regulatory, technical and legal expertise. Some of the activities include
review of technical policy, regulatory assumptions, design rules, program approvals, guidance on emission compliance
questions and guidelines. If necessary, these regional committees inform the Global Technical Safety & Regulatory
Compliance Manager and other relevant members of Senior Management.
6.2.5 POLICIES TO EXECUTE THE STRATEGY
Stellantis is focused on making responsible and prudent environmental policy decisions that touch our vehicles’ timeline,
from initial concept to product launch, as well as the “in-use” phase, when our products are in the hands of our customers . For Stellantis electrification policy
refer to 2.5.1
6.2.6 ORGANIZATION AND RESOURCES
Stellantis continuously makes R&D investments to the improvement of vehicle tailpipe emissions quality and the reduction
of greenhouse gas emissions. These investments, around €2 billion have led to worldwide development of technical
solutions (electrification, etc.) to improve reduction of fossil fuel consumption and pollutant emissions.
To develop new technologies, we adopted the Technology Readiness Level (TRL) process. This methodology provides
a consistent and uniform assessment process to grade the technical maturity of different technologies. The levels of
technical maturity are aligned with the Global Product Development Plan and maturity gate levels are achieved based on
stakeholder reviews.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.2.7 MAIN INITIATIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND RESULTS
6.2.7.1 Improve air quality by reducing vehicle emissions
To minimize particulate matter emissions, both in particle numbers and mass, optimized engine measures and the use of
wall flow particulate filters are effective technologies. Particulate filters allow the screening of both fine and ultra-fine
particulate matter. Depending on the fuel the result can achieve up to 99.7% by number and up to more than 95%1 by
mass. The particulate filter is an effective mechanical system which is fully operational throughout the phases of engine
operation and driving conditions.
With the introduction of the particulate filter in the late 1990s, particulate emissions plummeted from more than 3,500,000
particulates per cm3 in an unfiltered Internal Combustion Engine to less than 3,500 particulates per cm3 in an Internal
Combustion Engine (ICE) with a particulate filter.
COMPARISON OF PARTICULATE EMISSIONS LEVELS OF AN INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE
FITTED WITH A PARTICULATE FILTER
Clean Air from an ICE
Clean-room
(mountain) fitted with a Air near a busy road Cigarette smoke Air in traffic “Dirty” industrial site
air
air particulate filter
< 1,500 < 3,500 4,000 from 10,000 to 40,000 from 50,000 to 60,000 from 100,000 to 1,000,000
Number of particles per cm3
In 2022, 74.5% of ICE passenger cars were sold with technology for particulate emissions to reach values lower than 1.9
mg per km (3 mg per mile) for both spark ignition and compression engines.
We have developed and continue to improve the technology for a high performing filter for spark ignition engines
to further reduce ultrafine particles from gasoline engines. The technology development takes into account the new
constraints resulting from powertrain electrification. This new filter technology was launched mid 2022 in Europe and
enables us to be capable to meet the Euro 6e targets ahead of the requirement date.
1 Source: French Agency for the Environment and Energy Management (ADEME): particulate and NOx emissions by road vehicles – May 2018
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
Also, Nitrogen Oxides (NO) emissions are minimized adopting different technologies for ICE: Three Way Catalyst and
x
Selective Catalyst Reduction are the main technologies for vehicle applications around the world.
To reduce vapor emissions from fuel systems, also known as Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) and to fulfil more
stringent regulations in main markets such as EU, China and U.S., Stellantis continuously seeks to improve technology for
our evaporative emission control system.
Because compliance with emission requirements in all global markets is our primary goal, we continue to engineer and
implement improved and newly-developed advanced emission control technologies in order to achieve that in markets
with the most stringent emission regulations, such as the U.S. and Europe. Moreover, we anticipate this can confer
additional clean air benefits in other markets in which such improved and advanced technologies may be deployed as well.
6.2.7.2 Partnering transparency
Peugeot, Citroën and DS Automobile brands of Stellantis have taken an innovative approach to customer transparency
by publishing its vehicles’ real (on the road) fuel consumption. Measurements are taken in accordance with a specific
test protocol audited by an internationally renowned independent organization. The measurement protocol developed
has proven to be extremely reliable for testing real-world fuel consumption and CO emissions . The experiment
2
methodology was reproduced and also used to measure NO x and particulate emissions, as well. Since 2018 Peugeot, For more information refer to 2.5.3
Citroën and DS brands publish the results of these tests to contribute to further increasing the reliability of automotive
tests and measurements.
To date, Peugeot, Citroën and DS Automobile brands of Stellantis are among the few vehicle manufacturers to have made
such a commitment of transparency to benefit towards its customers.
6.3 Industrial environmental footprint
Stellantis environmental stewardship endeavors to achieve the objective of reducing our environmental footprint and to
contribute to the Company's financial success by reducing production costs. Through the adoption of a lean, smart and
increasingly digital operating model, a commitment to sustainable innovation, and the direct participation of employees
in the pursuit of excellence, we achieve consistent improvements in environmental performance at our manufacturing
operations.
6.3.1 GOVERNANCE AND DECISION BODIES TO LEAD ACTIONS
As outlined in chapter 1.3.2 of this report, the function of the ESG Committee is to assist and advise the Board of Directors
and act under authority delegated by the Board of Directors with respect to monitoring, evaluation and reporting on the
sustainable policies and practices, management standards, strategy, performance and governance.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
Accountable members of the Top Executive Team are supporting the CSR commitments. The Executive Vice-President
(EVP) Manufacturing is responsible for:
■ Industrial and sites carbon footprint For more information refer to 2.6
■ Optimization of material cycles in manufacturing processes (including waste) For more information refer to 6.4
■ Control of industrial discharges and nuisances For more information refer to 6.5
■ Sustainable water management For more information refer to 6.6
■ Protection of biodiversity For more information refer to 6.6
In this role, the EVP of Manufacturing validates the CSR vision, ambitions and targets for these CSR issues and is
responsible for their achievement. To ensure Stellantis is working towards these ambitions, we monitor our performance
against CSR targets using global KPIs.
Although our Manufacturing facilities are mainly contributing to the CSR performance, our CSR scope comprises additional
Research and Development facilities including proving grounds, Offices, IT / Warehouse / Logistics centers and Retail
facilities that based on their sizes and operations are considered to have an environmental impact. Therefore, the EVP
Manufacturing liaises with EVP Research and Development, EVP Sales/Marketing and EVP HR & Transformation on the
environmental performance of these areas.
CSR performance is reviewed regularly on a monthly basis and appropriate actions decided with regional leadership. The EVP
of the Regions together with the Manufacturing officers are responsible to develop their plans and implement actions to meet
the CSR targets. On an annual basis, the plant managers of our production facilities are expected to prepare site-specific plans
including targets, actions and necessary investments to meet our environmental CSR commitments. They are responsible for
the environmental performance of their plant. By a new oversight process Stellantis verifies that local plant performance targets
meet corporate commitments. Starting this year individual plant targets for 2023 are calculated and proposed to each plant
considering current performance status, local environmental infrastructure and business opportunities. Plants revise proposals,
decide their targets and develop action plans with clearly defined measures and its resulting performance improvements. The
regional Environmental Central Departments (ECD) monitor compliance with the regional targets.
The ECD helps facilities with legal compliance and supports the local EMS by developing efficiencies and common
standards. The ECD oversees and manages the quality of the EMS through audits and status reviews. ECD conducts
strategic cross functional planning for reducing the environmental impact and manages the target setting process. ECD
evaluates and shares best practices with the plants to encourage continuous improvement.
Continuous improvement of our environmental performance is an essential element of our policy and a common key
task for sites and central functions. Environmental performance is fully integrated into the Lean Manufacturing System
of Stellantis and tracked with the main Manufacturing KPIs by a standardized score card process. Monthly leadership
performance status reviews on a local and corporate level helps effectiveness of implemented measures and improves
the environmental footprint according to the strategic plan.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.3.2 POLICIES TO EXECUTE THE STRATEGY
6.3.2.1 Environmental and Energy Policy
In December 2022 we published the Stellantis corporate Environment and Energy Policy , which was developed with Stellantis corporate Environment
input from cross functional divisions reflecting contributions of the various functions to the Stellantis environmental and Energy Policy
performance. This policy describes how we protect the environment, provides guidance for our operations and https://www.stellantis.com/content/dam/
stellantis-corporate/sustainability/environmental-
employees and includes commitments required by ISO standards for environmental and energy management systems. stewardship-of-manufacturing-operations/
The environmental policy is approved by Stellantis executive management. Stellantis-Environmental-Energy-Policy.pdf
6.3.2.2 An active ISO 14001 certification policy Vehicles produced in ISO 14001
certified plants
An important Company commitment is to implement environmental management systems. The systems meet the
97%
international standard ISO 14001, a recognized standard for management and organization. By using this approach,
we have implemented a common environmental strategy to identify the material environmental aspects of each site,
reduce the environmental impact, draft procedures and standards, drive regulatory compliance and strive for continual
improvement – the foundation of our environmental protection. Employees working in ISO 14001
certified plants
An environmental management system is in place at 92% of our production facilities. In addition to the production facilities,
three Research and Development (Engineering) centers and 24 spare part warehouses globally have ISO 14001 certified 96%
environmental management system implemented.
6.3.3 ORGANIZATION AND RESOURCES Plants ISO 14001 certified
92%
6.3.3.1 Managing Environmental Compliance and Performance - with the Stellantis Production
Way (SPW)
SPW is our manufacturing system that applies to our manufacturing processes and facilities. The system includes references to
standardized tools, guidance documents and processes, which translate abstract requirements into tangible actions for production.
SPW consists of two managerial and 10-technical domains, one of which is environment. At the heart of the environment domain
our master fundamental “Managing Environmental Compliance and Performance” provides the framework for our mission to:
■ comply with laws and regulations;
■ achieve environmental performance though continual improvement;
■ maintain an environmental management system;
■ minimize use of energy and raw materials, strive for zero waste, zero emissions and zero water withdrawal for industrial
activities, reduce GHG emissions;
■ enhance biodiversity and preserve natural habitats ;
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
■ encourage engagement and motivation of employees;
■ be an environmentally conscious neighbor in the community .
The following list shows some of the benefits of applying the SPW environment domain into our production processes:
■ promotes visibility for environmental management responsibilities and tasks;
■ fosters understanding of environmental matters;
■ increases efficiency and reduces costs due to standardized processes and tools;
■ improves and aligns quality of environmental management;
■ integrates ISO 14001 standard elements following the Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle;
■ links with compliance management and oversight.
As part of SPW, we use global Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to track plants’ environmental performance against
the targets. In 2022, we moved to one global software system for monthly performance reporting which enables internal
benchmarking through consistent data management. Trends are evaluated for each KPI and shared with leadership in
regular reports. KPI statistics are used to identify performance gaps and to determine the plants that need additional
focused support through workshops. Best performing facilities are considered a source of Best Practices. They share their
processes between plants regionally and globally, if applicable.
Stellantis defined a Green Factory KPI based on the materiality matrix which consolidates the six KPIs including, CO, waste volume
2
and recovery rate, VOC emissions, water consumption, and biodiversity into one KPI. This approach references the Stellantis 2050
environmental performance targets and provide an index that shows the performance to the target for operating facilities.
6.3.3.2 Environmental resources GRI 413-2
Stellantis operations aim to achieve compliance with local regulations, and beyond compliance we seek to safeguard the
surrounding environment and the quality of life in our host communities. To meet our objectives, we defined the role of
the environmental specialist as a key function that requires specific competence and training. The role is standardized
globally by job description outlining the technical and social skills required. As part of the Stellantis Production Way there
are skill evaluations and standardized trainings conducted for team leaders, supervisors and experts. We are reviewing
training programs to expand to management level offerings. Training courses will include face-to-face sessions, experience
sharing opportunities and e-learning. Courses and training session attendance and requirements are tracked.
Our environmental specialists are supported by a network of nominated environmental representatives, from the key
operational functions including but not limited to press shop, body shop, paint shop, general assembly and facility
management. Most of the plants also include environmental service providers such as the waste manager in the supporting
network. The environmental representatives are responsible to help ensure compliance with applicable regulation; for
implementing the environmental policy and this includes managing the Environmental Management System (EMS) in
compliance with ISO 14001 standards. They are also responsible for supporting the CSR activities at the facility level.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.4 Optimization of material cycles in manufacturing processes
(including waste)
6.4.1 CONTEXT AND STELLANTIS POSITION GRI 3-3 GRI 306-1
CSR issue/challenge #16: Optimization of material cycles in manufacturing processes Optimization of material cycles in
16
manufacturing processes (including
(including waste)
waste)
Stellantis continues its development of a circular economy and industrial processes that allow us to reduce the usage of
raw materials . This also includes material reuse, recovery and recycling. The processes are intended to avoid wasting For more information refer to 6.1.1
natural resources and using only the quantity of raw materials necessary. By encouraging the use of recovery and recycling
opportunities, this strategy also extends into waste management, striving for minimal environmental impact and our goal
of zero waste to landfill.
Company’s public position
Stellantis stands by the waste management goals defined by Global Compact. Additionally, as part of the ISO 14001
certification obtained by most of our plants, we develop and implement consistent improvements in environmental areas,
including waste management. Stellantis strives to recycle what cannot be reused. If neither reuse nor recovery is possible,
waste is disposed according to applicable law with the aim of impacting the environment as little as possible.
6.4.2 FORWARD-LOOKING VISION AND TARGETS
CSR ISSUE/ VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT RESULTS
CHALLENGE
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term 2022 2021
(End of Strategic Plan)
16 Optimization of Design industrial Total waste normalized 2025: 40 kg/vehicle 2030: 36 kg/vehicle 2050: 22.5 kg/vehicle 47.43 kg/vehicle 48.151 kg/vehicle
material cycles in processes that allow (kg/vehicle produced) produced produced produced produced produced
manufacturing minimal use of raw
processes (including materials and ensure
waste) 100% waste recycling Percentage of waste 2025: 84% 2030: 90% 2050: 100% 81% 80%
Owner: in local loops of circular recovered out of total
Chief Manufacturing economy waste generated
Officer
Percentage of plants 2025: 65% 2030: 75% 2050: 100% 65% 61%
with Zero Waste Sent to
Landfill
1 Revised from 2021 Non-financial information Annual Report
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.4.3 IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES GRI 306-1
6.4.3.1 Risks
Stellantis identified some risks and has implemented several actions and initiatives to mitigate them.
■ Potential business risk:
● Dependency from raw materials constraints and increasing supply cost due to material scarcity.
● Packaging material represents approximately 50% of waste generated at our production facilities. Global sourcing
due to cost pressure, favors the usage of one-way packaging that ends-up as waste at our plants.
● Stellantis has responsibility for hazardous and non-hazardous waste through final disposal of waste. Third-party
service providers such as waste contractors or waste treatment and disposal facilities that fail to comply with
transport or other waste regulations may cause fines or legal prosecution for Stellantis.
■ Potential operational risk:
● Emerging contaminants, e.g., Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP), may limit recycling options and therefore limit our
disposal methods.
● More stringent regulations, including concentration limits, quotas, and bans, may force us to use expensive treatment
methods or increase waste segregation costs.
● Lack of local waste treatment facilities may lead to waste being shipped long distances at higher costs and an
increased dependency on service providers.
● Landfills located close to production facilities compete economically with waste recovery facilities located in greater
distances. Unfavorable business cases may limit our plants achieving or maintaining zero waste to landfill status.
■ Potential reputation risk:
● Stellantis being held responsible for failures of third-party waste service providers that violate contractual obligations
for example by illegally dumping waste. Even if Stellantis fulfilled all its obligations, this may lead to media attention
resulting in impact to brand value, customer defection and legal prosecution.
● Stellantis being held responsible for increasing pollution to the environment by continuing landfilling instead of using
recovery. This may result in impact to brand value, customer defection and loss of profit.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.4.3.2 Opportunities GRI 306-2
Stellantis identified opportunities and has implemented several actions to seize them.
■ Opportunities for the business:
● Shifting the focus from waste management to resource management. This offers the opportunity to view waste
materials as secondary raw material and unlock their value by transforming costs into revenue. Best practice sharing
may help identify other industries interested in using these secondary raw materials.
● To standardize waste contracts that include flexibility to react on fluctuating costs or volumes and require key
performance improvement indicators for service providers to support our targets of waste reduction, increased
recovery rate and zero waste to landfill.
● Base decisions on a full cycle cost view for packaging materials that includes purchasing to waste disposal.
● To reduce waste handling costs and improve recyclability, set standards for packaging materials that avoid composite
materials and favor materials that are easy to separate. Reduce complexity and variety of materials used to have less
waste fractions but higher volumes, which may lead to better disposal prices or even revenues.
■ Opportunity for operational management:
● Set standards for contractor management and auditing of waste service providers to control risks related to
compliance failures.
● Make use of new ideas and technologies for instance working with start-ups to improve the quality of waste sorting,
optimizing flows or identifying options for reuse or usage as secondary raw material. This may lead to establishing
local circular material loops.
● Minimize usage of hazardous substances to decrease hazardous waste which reduces the costs of waste treatment
and disposal.
● Identify opportunities to reuse waste as secondary raw material on-site or with external partners.
■ Opportunities for reputation:
● Become an industry major player in circular economy reducing the impact for the environment and improve brand
image and sales.
● Reaching 100% waste recovery represents a sustainable waste management practice and supports the reputation
of the Company.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.4.4 MAIN INITIATIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND RESULTS
Our waste management processes seek to avoid and reduce the generation of waste in our operational processes. If we
cannot avoid waste being generated, we preferentially attempt to recover material rather than dispose waste in landfills,
which may have a long-term negative impact on the environment. Like other industries, vehicle manufacturing generates
waste that needs to be managed and preferably recovered in local loops to reduce the need for raw materials.
6.4.4.1 Main achievements on waste management SASB-440b.1 GRI 306-2
In 2022, Stellantis generated 302,858 tons of waste (versus 305,468 tons in 2021) of which 273,597 tons (versus 273,850
tons in 2021) were generated at manufacturing sites and 29,261 tons (versus 31,618 tons in 2021) from Retail activities.
Total Waste by Disposal Type in % and tons
70% 212,333 tons
RECYCLING
68% 206,656 tons
ENERGY 12% 34,882 tons
RECOVERY 14% 42,215 tons
2% 6,556 tons
INCINERATION
2% 7,310 tons
11% 34,731 tons
LANDFILLING
12% 37,198 tons
OTHER 5% 14,356 tons 2022
TREATMENT 4% 12,089 tons 2021
Total waste generated includes only material that we discard resulting from our operations. Therefore, we exclude waste
generated in demolishing, building or remediation activities, which are not part of our operations. In 2022, waste generated
from such projects added up to 34,263 tons in total versus 38,157 tons in 2021. In addition, we exclude metal waste and
some wastes that are specific for foundries to enable better comparison of data with other automobile manufacturers. In
2022, the total amount of metal waste summed up to 1,057,057 tons versus 1,053,388 tons in 2021, of which 100% were
recycled. The excluded waste types coming from our foundries added up to 218,057 tons versus 174,474 tons in 2021 and
consisted predominately of foundry sands, the majority of which are regenerated or reused on site.
In 2022, we generated 55,603 tons of hazardous waste, which represents 18% of total waste generated versus 63,693
tons of hazardous waste, which represented 21% of total waste generated in 2021. The manufacturing activities generated
96% of the hazardous waste and retail activities 4%.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
Total hazardous waste of total waste with breakdown % of activities
NON-HAZARDOUS 73%
WASTE MANUFACTURING 69%
NON-HAZARDOUS 9%
WASTE RETAIL 10%
HAZARDOUS 17%
WASTE MANUFACTURING 20%
HAZARDOUS 1% 2022
WASTE RETAIL 1%
2021
For our manufacturing activities, in 2022, 273,597 tons of waste were generated, the normalized total waste generated was
47.43 kg/vehicle produced versus 48.15 kg/vehicle produced in 2021. This represents a reduction of 0.72 kg/vehicle versus 2021.
The normalized hazardous waste was 9.28 kg/vehicle versus 10.80 kg/vehicle produced in 2021. Although multiple factors such
as production volume and the usage or avoidance of one-way packaging are significantly influencing waste performance of a
production facility, we compare our production plants to identify the best performers and share their best practices.
In 2022, the best performing vehicle assembly plant was Brampton Assembly Plant with 8.48 kg of waste per vehicle
produced (versus the best performer with 13.52 kg /vehicle in 2021). 55% versus 42% in 2021 of our vehicle assembly plants
performed better than our medium-term target of 36 kg waste per vehicle produced.
Our percentage of waste recovered out of total waste generated in 2022 was 81%, what represents an increase of 1%
versus 2021. Waste recovered includes all recycled waste and waste that is incinerated with energy recovery.
In 2022, we landfilled 34,731 tons of waste, which represents 11% of our total waste generated, versus 37,198 tons in
2021 which represented 12% of total waste generated. 65% versus 61% in 2021 of all the active plants, qualified as zero
waste to landfill facilities, which means that no waste was landfilled (except for any waste required to be landfilled due
to applicable legislation).
If waste is disposed in a landfill, that waste is not available as secondary raw material; for those reasons landfilling
contradicts our waste disposal commitments. In some jurisdictions, however, local law requires us to landfill our waste.
The waste streams with the biggest volumes generated at the Manufacturing facilities consists of the following:
■ packing waste (wood, cardboard and plastics)
■ paint operations waste (paint sludge, purge solvents)
■ municipal waste
■ waste water treatment system waste (sludge, oil or water emulsions).
Waste derived from office activities consists of municipal waste. Depending on the specific retail activity, the waste
generated is:
■ warehouse packaging waste
■ municipal waste from offices
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
GRI 306-2
6.4.4.2 Main initiatives on waste management
As outlined in section 6.4.3 , the challenges impacting waste generation may require strategic decisions by Global For more information refer to 6.4.3
Purchasing and Supply Chain or Engineering, and other risks may be addressed by operational measures. We apply our best
practice in the support of our facilities’ waste avoidance, reduction, recycling, reuse, or finding more environmentally friendly
disposal methods. Some examples of successful initiatives to reduce waste generation or improve recovery are listed below:
6.4.4.2.1 Initiatives to increase waste reduction and avoidance: GRI 301-2
■ Packaging waste reduction: packaging materials play an important role in waste generation and represents roughly
50% of the total waste generated. The main waste streams are wood, cardboard, plastics and mixed fractions. Reducing
the generation of packaging waste requires cross-functional efforts by multiple functions such as supply chain,
purchasing, quality and manufacturing. New vehicle projects require early planning for the packaging materials. The
planning includes determining where the materials come from, and which materials should be used in order to limit and
control waste generated at plants. To support decisions, a series of workshops were conducted by central functions and
environmental engineers from some European production sites. A list was generated that includes preferred packaging
materials and ones we recommend that we avoid. Additional value was created by generating less waste streams with
higher volumes that have a positive impact on recycling options and prices. This list of materials was incorporated into
the standard packaging specifications used by Global Purchasing and Supply Chain in their procurement processes.
■ Reuse of industrial assets: in our global manufacturing facilities we reuse industrial assets across facilities such as
machining and production equipment to avoid waste and use resources in a sustainable way. To enable reuse, we
adapted equipment for different process needs, transferred them to other Stellantis facilities or sold them to other
companies. In 2022, we transferred more than 7,000 assets globally, by these practices.
■ Waste generation avoidance:
● At our powertrain plant, Valenciennes (France) powertrain plant various improvements in the effluent system of the
washing machines and phosphating have resulted in a reduction of phosphate sludge by approximately 236 tons
annually and a reduction of emulsions from the washing water by approximately 720 tons per year.
● At our at our vehicle plant, in Atessa (Italy), improvements in the dewatering process for paint sludge in the paint
shop have resulted in a reduced sludge generation of 23% per vehicle which resulted in an annual reduction of
around 250 tons of paint sludge in 2022 at our powertrain plant, Szentgotthard (Hungary), several improvements of
cleaning activities led to an annual reduction of oily grinding sludge of approximately seven tons annually and the
packaging waste was reduced by approximately 28 tons annually.
● At our vehicle plant, Mirafiori (Italy), we analyzed whether our suppliers can switch from cardboard packaging
to returnable containers. More than 50% of the analyzed suppliers were able to switch to returnable packaging,
reducing our waste by approximately 250 tons annually.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
● At our vehicle plant, Zaragoza (Spain), we started a project to eliminate individual cardboard separators from the rear
bumper, increasing the capacity of the container and reducing the amount of cardboard by approximately 29 tons annually.
● At our powertrain plant, Termoli (Italy), by extending the service life of the filters in the emulsion system, we saved
49 tons of hazardous waste from filter materials. Additionally, there were technical improvements in the finishing
process, the grinding sludge was reduced by approximately 60 tons annually.
● Since 2019, packaging in our assembly plant in Trnava (Slovakia), transport capacity has been analyzed and optimized.
This has increased the number of parts transported per packaging unit without reducing the quality requirements
for the packaging. Overall, this initiative has reduced packaging waste per vehicle by approximately 1 kg over the
last 3 years. The improvements implemented in 2022 resulted in a reduced waste volume of approximately 105 tons.
■ Increasing reuse: at our powertrain plant, Szentgotthard (Hungary), we collect condensed emulsion in our technological
exhaust air systems and the emulsions from the chip centrifuge. This collected emulsion is reused in the central coolant
system. This emulsion reuse reduced our waste by approximately 46 tons annually.
■ From one way packaging to no packaging: at our Plastics Component PCMA plant San Benigno (Italy), the delivery
of the molding material for the products was changed from one-way one-off cardboard boxes on wooden pallets
to direct truck delivery to the storage silos. By changing the delivery, approximately 21 tons of cardboard waste and
approximately 27 tons of wood waste are reduced each year.
6.4.4.2.2 Initiatives to improve waste recovery GRI 306-4
Improving waste segregation and recovery:
■ at our warehouse in Bochum (Germany), we identified third parties that reuse wooden one-way pallets as spare parts
for other pallets, that we previously disposed of as incineration with energy recovery. Up to 360 tons of wood annually
that was previously incinerated can now be recycled. At our component production and warehouse facility in Vesoul
(France), we found a solution for approximately 200 tons of formally landfilled municipal waste which is now disposed
of as incineration with energy recovery.
■ at our Dundee Engine Plant (U.S.), the general refuse and filter media was being sent to landfill. All general refuse and
filter media was switched over to waste-to-energy allowing our Dundee plant to become zero landfill (100% Recovery)
and diverting approximately 120 tons of trash as well as approximately 20 tons of filter media annually.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.4.5 DETAILED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS GRI 306-3 GRI 306-4 GRI 306-5
6.4.5.1 Total waste generated from operation by disposal type measured in tons SASB 440b.1
Recovered Treated
(disposal other than
Incinerated recovery, incineration, Total Waste
Waste generated (tons) Recycled Energy recovered (w/o energy recovery) Landfilled landfilled) Generated
2022 114,386 13,371 5,859 1,452 12,752 147,820
Enlarged Europe
2021 107,559 17,964 6,779 4,851 11,153 148,306
2022 39,228 4,424 38 28,976 485 73,151
North America
2021 37,710 4,327 124 27,427 422 70,010
2022 29,121 12,745 618 1,662 822 44,968
Manufacturing South America
2021 30,775 15,639 385 2,032 131 48,962
2022 2,971 1,288 0 463 0 4,722
Middle East & Africa
2021 2,788 880 0 540 0 4,209
2022 2,818 78 40 0 0 2,936
China and India &
Asia Pacific 2021 1,993 97 22 251 0 2,363
2022 188,523 31,906 6,555 32,553 14,059 273,597
Total Manufacturing
2021 180,825 38,907 7,310 35,101 11,706 273,850
2022 23,810 2,976 1 2,177 297 29,261
Retail
2021 25,831 3,308 0 2,097 383 31,618
2022 212,333 34,882 6,556 34,731 14,356 302,858
Total waste generated
2021 206,656 42,215 7,310 37,198 12,089 *305,468
2022 70% 12% 2% 11% 5% 100%
Waste by category (%) 2022
2021 68% 14% 2% 12% 4% 100%
* Revised from 2021 Annual Report in the Non-Financial Information section
6.4.5.2 Additional waste streams from operation excluded from total waste generated in tons
FOUNDRY-SPECIFIC 218,057 tons 2022
WASTE 174,474 tons 2021
METAL WASTE 1,057,057 tons
1,053,388 tons
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.4.5.3 Total hazardous and non-hazardous waste from operations in tons
Hazardous / Non-Hazardous Waste (tons) Hazardous Waste Non-Hazardous Waste Total Waste Generated
2022 39,400 108,420 147,825
Enlarged Europe
2021 45,556 102,750 148,306
2022 5,692 67,451 73,150
North America
2021 6,677 63,333 70,010
2022 6,900 38,069 44,968
Manufacturing South America
2021 7,800 41,162 48,962
2022 1,247 3,474 4,721
Middle East & Africa
2021 875 3,334 4,209
China and India & 2022 273 2,663 2,936
Asia Pacific 2021 534 1,829 2,363
2022 53,512 220,085 273,597
Total Manufacturing
2021 61,442 212,408 273,850
2022 2,091 27,170 29,261
Retail
2021 2,251 29,367 31,618
2022 55,603 247,255 302,858
Total Hazardous / Non-Hazardous
2021 63,693 241,775 *305,468
2022 18% 82% 100%
Waste by category (%)
2021 21% 79% 100%
* Revised from 2021 Non-financial information Annual Report
6.4.5.4 Percentage of plants with Zero Waste Sent to Landfill
86%
ENLARGED
EUROPE 83%
17%
NORTH
AMERICA 21%
75%
SOUTH
AMERICA 58%
67%
MIDDLE EAST
& AFRICA 67%
CHINA AND 100%
INDIA & ASIA
33%
PACIFIC
65% 2022
TOTAL
61% 2021
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.5 Control of industrial discharges and nuisances
6.5.1 CONTEXT AND STELLANTIS POSITION GRI 3-3
CSR issue/challenge #17: Control of industrial discharges and nuisances 17 Control of industrial discharge and
nuisances
Stellantis understands that the automotive production processes use substances and processes that generate air emissions
that could potentially affect air quality, natural environments and the quality of life in the surrounding neighborhoods
of our plants. In particular, we monitor and control air emissions such as Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC), that are
derived from solvent use in paint processes, Sulfur Dioxide (SO), Nitrogen Oxides (NO) and Particulate Matter, that 2 x
are the result of combustion processes (for example, burning fossil fuels for energy generation or heating purposes)
and Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) that leaked from refrigeration and air conditioning equipment in our plants and
offices. Nuisances could also occur in the form of noise or odor generated by industrial processes or accidental releases of
chemicals with potential impact on other environmental media such as soil or water, or on human health.
We are implementing processes to limit and reduce air emissions, including the post-processing of residual emissions,
noise and odor level monitoring and substitution of hazardous substances with non-hazardous ones where possible.
Company’s public position
We are committed to compliance with environmental regulations in the areas that we operate. Stellantis is developing
and implementing processes for consistent improvement and for controlling its environmental impact. Stellantis strives
for zero VOC emissions through improvements of treatment processes.
6.5.2 FORWARD-LOOKING VISION AND TARGETS
Commitment scoreboard
CSR ISSUE/ VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT RESULTS
CHALLENGE
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term 2022 2021
(End of Strategic Plan)
Control of industrial Implement state of the Volatile Organic 2025: 2030: 2050: 24.25 g/m2 painted 24.95 g/m2 painted
17
discharges and art technical solutions Compounds (VOC) 25 g/m2 painted 25 g/m2 painted ambition of 0 g/m2
nuisances to prevent industrial emissions from paint painted
Owner: Chief activities from causing shops normalized (g/m2
Manufacturing nuisances to the painted).
Officer surrounding areas
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.5.3 IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
6.5.3.1 Risks
Stellantis identified some risks and has implemented several actions and initiatives to mitigate them.
■ Potential business risks:
● Stellantis is dependent on future technologies to accomplish the aspirational goal of zero VOC emissions in painting
processes.
● Today, 35% of our paint shops use solvent-based paints and are subject to stringent regulatory emission limits. High
production volumes allocated to these plants increase our global VOC emissions. To convert existing solvent-based
paint into water-based paint, we estimated an investment cost of several hundred million euros.
● Increasing demands by authorities for provisions and guarantees to cover clean-up costs of end-of-life real estate
assets. Higher premiums to cover the insurance costs of accidental spills and releases.
■ Potential operational risks:
● Meeting more stringent regulatory emission factors could require adapting operational processes or replacing
materials.
● Reducing VOC emissions by combustion, determines increased exhaust gases and energy usage. Such combustion
processes negatively contribute to CO emissions and also increases NO emissions.
2 x
● New residential development surrounding our facilities may be impacted by noise, light or other emissions.
■ Potential reputational risks:
● Failure to meet customer expectations of minimal effect on the environment from our products and production.
● Accidental releases may cause significant legal and clean-up costs, loss of trust by neighboring communities, damage
to company reputation, brand image and sales.
6.5.3.2 Opportunities
Stellantis identified opportunities and has implemented several actions to seize them.
■ Opportunities for the business:
● Opportunities to work with suppliers to develop and test new painting methods and equipment, such as low
overspray technology.
● Minimize the risk for accidental releases by implementing pollution control measures such as an equipment
maintenance and repair program, enhancing operational procedures in our environmental management systems.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
■ Opportunities for operational management:
● Implement efficiency measures and process optimization including improved cleaning processes and batch painting
which reduce usage of solvents and produce less emissions.
● Reduction of solvent emissions by using solvent-free or low solvents.
● Replace manual painting operations with automatic painting processes, which use less paint and generate less
overspray, thereby reducing VOC emissions and paint sludge.
● Limit the nuisances to people and the environment by managing the chemicals used on site e.g., control or eliminate
substances that causes odor nuisances.
■ Opportunities for reputation:
● Enhance relationships, social acceptance to operate and brand value by maintaining or improving air and soil quality
and reducing noise and odor in the neighboring communities.
● Demonstrate transparency by disclosing information to authorities and to the public in case of accidental harmful
releases in the environment.
6.5.4 MAIN INITIATIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND RESULTS
6.5.4.1 Reducing air emissions GRI 305-6 GRI 305-7
Besides industrial Carbon Dioxide (CO 2) emissions , Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC), Sulfur Dioxide (SO 2), Nitrogen For more information refer to 2.6
Oxides (NO), Particulate Matter (PM), and Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) are air emissions generated by Stellantis
x
facilities. These emissions result from the usage of chemical products in painting operations, surface treatment activities,
foundry processes, dust collectors, and from burning fossil fuels in heating and VOC abatement processes.
Reducing Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emissions
VOCs require environmental controls to reduce the impact on air quality. Some VOCs are harmful to human beings and the
environment, some come from natural sources and others are human made. In most jurisdictions, regulations are in place
to limit and control industrial VOC emissions.
The majority of VOC emissions generated in our manufacturing operations come from vehicle painting operations or
surface treatment processes. VOCs are significant constituents in the formulation of paints and cleaning materials used
in paint shops. Even though paint shops using waterborne base coats contribute to our VOC emissions, paint shops
with solvent-based base coats play the most important role. Approximately, 35% of our paint shops use solvent-based
base coats. When high production volumes are allocated to these plants, they become main drivers for our global VOC
emissions.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
In 2022, we emitted 24.25 g/m² painted surface versus 24.95 g/m2 in 2021 or 2.71 kg/vehicle produced versus 2.82 in 2021.
This represents a reduction of 0.7 g/m² versus 2021.
The best performing vehicle assembly plant was Sterling Heights Assembly Plant with 5.25 g/m². However, 60% of our
vehicle assembly plants performed better than our medium-term target of 25 g/m².
We focus our actions on reducing VOC emissions, efficiency measures, reducing consumption of paints and their solvent
content, implementing low-emission technologies and installing air treatment equipment for incinerating VOC. Measures
for recycling and reuse of solvents for cleaning purposes are ongoing.
The following selected examples illustrate our efforts to reduce VOC emissions:
■ At our Warren truck assembly plant (U.S.), we reduced VOC emissions by refurbishing a paint coating line utilizing new
technologies, recirculating booth air, improved VOC abatement equipment and shutting down three old paint lines.
These measures reduced VOC emissions at the facility by 19.58 g/m². This reduction is a 67% improvement from 2021.
■ At our assembly plant in Luton (UK), we improved the piping system for the recovery of solvents contaminated
during the color change cleaning process. This resulted in a more efficient waste solvent recovery and lowered the
evaporation of the solvent. The piping system project cost was approximately € 100,000, and together with some
smaller improvements in material consumption and cleaning processes allowed the site to reduce their VOC emissions
by approximately 4.5 g/m².
■ In the paint shop of our vehicle assembly plant in Madrid (Spain), we completed the change from manual interior
painting of the base coat lines to robotic applicators. This automated process, combined with the optimization of the
purging and cleaning of the application robots and the reduction of solvent consumption for the cleaning processes in
the paint shop, reduces VOC emissions by up to 8 g/m² compared to 2021.
Stellantis invests in research and development for new paints and paint technologies. Progress has been made to increase
the solid content of the white paint on commercial vehicles, which allows the reduction of the amount of solvent and
decreases VOC emissions.
Reducing emissions of Sulfur Dioxide (SO), Nitrogen Oxides (NO ) and Particulate Matter (PM)
2 x
Both gases, SO and NO, are present in our atmosphere and have natural and industrial origins. Human-made sources
2 x
are any kind of combustion process, e.g., burning of fossil fuels. The gases can form acid rain, which negatively affects
ecosystems such as, forests and lakes, as well as man-made structures like buildings and statues. Therefore, industrial SO
2
and NO emissions are regulated in most jurisdictions.
x
Particulate Matter (PM) is solid or liquid particles that is measured in micrometers (1,000 times smaller than millimeter)
and suspended into the air. PM may come from natural or human-made sources. PM can cause harm to human health,
and the suspended particles can affect the amount of incoming and reflected radiation in the earth’s atmosphere and
therefore influence our climate.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
In our Manufacturing facilities, we operate different types of combustion installations using fossil fuels, such as ovens for
drying painted parts, thermal oxidizers for reducing VOC emissions, boilers for heating buildings, and cogeneration plants
for heat and electricity generation. In our Retail activities these emissions are linked with heating or air conditioning.
In 2022, our SO emissions were a total of 218 tons, NO emissions were a total of 1,346 tons and PM was 98 tons.
2 x
The SO emissions increased by 108 tons, NO emissions decreased by 118 tons and PM decreased by 16 tons compared to
2 x
2021. The main reasons for the reduction were a result of the energy saving activities at all sites. The increase of the SO
2
emissions is due to the extended emission reporting from our foundries.
Reducing Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) emissions
Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) are a group of chemical substances that have the ability to react with ozone and
negatively impact the ozone layer of the stratosphere. The ozone layer prevents harmful wavelengths of ultraviolet light
to reach the earth’s surface which cause harm to human beings, vegetation and animals. Since the Montreal Protocol in
1987 and the subsequent revisions of this international treaty, production of certain groups of ODS have been banned,
and their usage was phased-out or will phase-out within the next few years.
Most ODS are used as refrigerants, solvents or blowing agents which makes them available in process and air conditioning
equipment at our manufacturing facilities, offices and retail sites, as well as in the air conditioning systems in our products.
Stellantis monitors ODS emissions during ODS-containing equipment maintenance or service activities and leak checks.
ODS emissions are recorded in the event of an incident of an equipment installation. In 2022, our ODS emissions were in
total at 52 kg of CFC-11 equivalent. This represents an increase 13 kg compared to 2021.
6.5.4.2 Reducing other industrial discharges and nuisances
Reducing chemicals
Stellantis strives to manage the usage of hazardous chemicals in a rigorous manner. When a new chemical product is
introduced at a plant, it is assessed. The assessment includes checking the nature and acceptability of the health and
environmental impacts. This assessment either results in a ban of the product or acceptance for use with risk prevention
requirements. Safety data sheets are developed for authorized products and access to the information is provided to
employees.
In addition to the approval processes, structural measures such as building retention basins or using above ground
pipe systems versus underground piping to carry liquids, can limit the impact in case of accidental releases. To minimize
chemical risks, supervisors or other functions conduct checks of environmental procedures and installations during site
walks and inspections as part of Stellantis Production System or during ISO 14001 audits. In addition, inventories of
chemical products in stock enables the facility to limit on-site volumes.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
Reducing other forms of nuisances in local communities, such as noise or odor
Noise and odor caused by our operations may cause nuisances to our neighbors including residential areas located close to
our facilities. We seek to address the potential risks by conducting impact studies and action plans potentially associated
with our manufacturing facilities. The studies assess the sensitivity of residential areas surrounding the plants with criteria
such as sound levels, odors or traffic. When new chemical products are introduced at a plant, the components are reviewed
to limit issues such as odor. In most jurisdictions, studies are required for new facilities or as part of major site redevelopment
and building projects. Usually, these studies are subject to public disclosure and approval by the authorities.
Avoiding and remediating soil contamination
Given the long history of some industrial facilities, soil impacts may be present at our sites. Historic contamination may
be caused by leakages from underground storage tanks, underground pipes or spills. We conduct site investigations
as part of ongoing initiatives, site acquisition or divestment projects, and at the request of regulators. The initial site
investigation step usually includes record reviews and interviews to identify potential areas of concern. In the following
steps, if necessary, onsite investigations may include the analysis of soil, surface water or groundwater, or soil gas samples
in order to determine the presence and extent of potential contamination. In some cases, this onsite investigation may
consist of several phases to delineate the extent of the contamination. Depending on the results, measures such as
monitoring, containment or remediation activities are implemented. Our environmental experts liaise closely with the
involved authorities to comply with local regulations.
6.5.5 DETAILED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS GRI 305-6 GRI 305-7
6.5.5.1 VOC emissions from paint shops in grams/m2 and tons
VOC g/m2 painted tons
2022 27.12 8,765
Enlarged Europe
2021 28.82 9,318
2022 14.03 3,237
North America
2021 14.79 3,410
Manufacturing 2022 37.31 2,953
South America
Activities 2021 34.90 2,789
2022 52.90 601
Middle East & Africa
2021 58.66 514
China and India & 2022 139.89* 82*
Asia Pacific 2021 Not available Not available
2022 24.25 15,638
Total Manufacturing
2021 24.95 16,031
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.5.5.2 Industrial air emissions
ODS NO SO PM
x 2
kg of CFC-11 equivalent kg kg kg
2022 1 597,194 130,912 43,138
Enlarged Europe
2021 14 688,615 4,900 59,506
2022 6 645,774 86,691 48,373
North America
2021 24 678,239 104,640 49,832
Manufacturing 2022 45 53,779 367 3,910
South America
Activities 2021 1 56,419 350 3,609
2022 0 5,097 32 381
Middle East & Africa
2021 0 5,500 38 418
2022 0 1,390 13 34
China and India &
Asia Pacific 2021 0 522 11 58
2022 52 1,303,234 218,015 95,836
Total Manufacturing Activities
2021 39 1,429,295 109,939 113,423
2022 Not available 42,843 270 1,797
Retail
2021 Not available 34,186 215 1,696
2022 52 1,346,077 218,284 97,633
Total
2021 39 1,463,481 110,154 115,119
ODS = Ozone Depleting Substance. Reported are R11 (CFC11), R12 (CFC12), R13 (CFC13) R115 (CFC115), R502 (HFCF502), R500 (HCFC500), R22 (HCFC22),
R124 (HCFC124), R142B (HCFC142B), R408A (HCFC408A), R409 (HCFC409), R402A (HCFC402A)
SO 2 = Sulphur Dioxide
NOx = Nitrogen Oxides
PM = Particulate Matter microscopic solid or liquid particles suspended in air, are reported as a total
Note: Direct SO2, NOx and PM emissions are calculated using publicly available emission factors per fuel types
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.6 Sustainable water management in manufacturing
6.6.1 CONTEXT AND STELLANTIS POSITION
GRI 3-3 GRI 303-3 GRI 303-4
CSR issue/challenge #18: Sustainable water management in manufacturing GRI 303-5
Stellantis aims to continuously adjust its manufacturing processes to use less water and to increase recycling and reuse of Sustainable water management in
18
manufacturing
its industrial water, by monitoring our water consumption to continue to remain agile to modify and improve processes.
We are aware that there are water-stressed areas around the world where less-efficient water use may have adverse
social and environmental effects due to reduced water availability, quality and disruption of ecosystems.
Company’s public position GRI 413-2
As a Global Compact member, Stellantis fully adheres to the sustainability development goals for clean water management.
Furthermore, Stellantis obtained ISO 14001 certification for the vast majority of our plants and as such the Company is
developing and implementing processes for improvement of water management.
Stellantis is committed to promote responsible water stewardship to strive for zero water withdrawal in industrial activities
and to prevent any pollutant discharge. Where our plants are in areas with identified water stress, Stellantis is committed
to implement extra water management measures.
6.6.2 FORWARD-LOOKING VISION AND TARGETS
CSR ISSUE/ VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT RESULTS
CHALLENGE
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term 2022 2021
(End of Strategic Plan)
18 Sustainable water Promote responsible Total water withdrawn 2025: 2030: 2038: 4.56 m3/vehicle 4.77 m3/vehicle
management in water stewardship to normalized (m3/vehicle 3.5 m3/vehicle 3.0 m3/vehicle 2.0 m3/vehicle produced produced
manufacturing strive for zero water produced) produced produced produced
Owner: withdrawal by water in water-stressed
Chief Manufacturing recycling in industrial areas
Officer activities
2050:
1.0 m3/vehicle
produced
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.6.3 IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
6.6.3.1 Risk
Stellantis identified some risks and has implemented several actions and initiatives to mitigate them.
■ Potential risk for the business:
● Developing manufacturing facilities in water-stressed areas may affect the local water use and the livelihood in the
communities, leading to potential conflicts and water usage restrictions for our facilities.
● Increased flood risk due to extreme weather events affecting facilities located close to rivers, in river basins or other
geographical locations.
● Water scarcity is an emerging global environmental topic and its affects are not fully experienced or understood
in every region. This constraint may lead to an underestimation of the severity of the issue. Investment costs
versus operational costs may make it difficult to implement new water saving technology and processes within
manufacturing facilities in many regions.
■ Potential risks for operational management:
● Water shortage may lead to increased water supply costs, reduction of production volume or disruption of operations,
leading certain governments to impose more stringent requirements for obtaining and maintaining permits for water
withdrawal. There are some facilities that need to change current operational permits to maintain operations.
● More stringent regulatory targets on pollution control of wastewater discharge are causing us to adapt our production
processes or substitute raw materials, which may lead to increased cost for water treatment.
● Extreme temperatures and droughts can cause the rise in temperatures of rivers and streams. When the water
temperatures exceed the temperatures allowed by regulators, we may be restricted from discharging cooling waters
from cogeneration power plants which could impact production.
■ Potential reputational risk:
● Water management and target setting requires a site-specific approach. The challenge is to meet stakeholder
expectations with customized actions based the local water constraints.
● Being held responsible by the general public or neighboring communities for exploiting or polluting shared water
resources with our manufacturing facilities.
● Being held responsible for increasing the water stress in regions where we develop new facilities. This may result in
impact to brand value, customer defection and loss of profit.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.6.3.2 Opportunities
Stellantis identified opportunities and has implemented several actions to seize them.
■ Opportunities for the business:
● Adopt best practices and public scientific data and tools to assess water risks for facilities.
● Direct investments toward facilities located in water-stressed areas or projects that have the biggest impact on
water by reducing risk and increasing performance.
● Design out pollutants from materials or processes to minimize water treatment and associated costs.
■ Opportunities for operational management:
● Implement technology and processes that require less water for new facility design or facility redevelopment projects.
Enable recycling or reuse of water to reduce dependency on the water resources may save water supply and clean-
up costs. In existing facilities, the deployment of best practices shared amongst the manufacturing plants support
efficiency improvements in water usage.
● Adopt efficiency measures to reduce water usage and wastewater treatment may lead to less energy usage, and
therefore have a positive impact on operational costs, as well as on CO emissions combating climate change.
2
● Implement internal water quality standards and clean-up goals to anticipate and address stringent targets set by
regulators. In addition, improved water quality offers more options for reusing water.
■ Opportunities for reputation:
● Maintain or improve water availability for others in locations of high water-stressed areas, enhance community
relations, social acceptance to operate and increase brand value.
● Proactive disclosure of information regarding our sustainable water management initiatives, outreach activities with
the neighboring community or education initiatives on water issues.
6.6.4 MAIN INITIATIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND RESULTS GRI 413-2
6.6.4.1 Main achievements on water management GRI 303-1 GRI 303-2 GRI 303-3
■ Water withdrawn GRI 303-4 GRI 303-5
In 2022, we withdrew in total 26,661 thousand m3 of water versus 27,540 thousand m3 of water in 2021, of which
26,285 thousand m3 versus 27,142 thousand m3 of water in 2021 were withdrawn by Manufacturing sites and 376
thousand m3 versus 398 thousand m3 of water in 2021 for Retail activities. The sources for our water supply were
comprised of third-party or municipal water at 62%, surface water at 15% and groundwater at 23%.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
Stellantis does not abstract seawater, all water withdrawn is considered freshwater. In addition, 35,673 thousand
m3 of water from surface waters were abstracted for cooling purposes at our own cogeneration plants.
Annual water withdrawal by source In 2022, water withdrawn was
62% 4.56 m3 per vehicle produced, a
THIRD-PARTY /
MUNICIPAL WATER 61% reduction of 4.4% versus 2021
15%
SURFACE WATER
15%
2022
23%
GROUNDWATER 24% 2021
The normalized water withdrawn for Manufacturing activities in 2022 was 4.56 m3 per vehicle produced versus 4.77 m3 per
vehicle produced in 2021. This represents a reduction of 0.21 m3 per vehicle produced.
Our Manufacturing facilities vary widely in terms of plant size, production volume, operations performed, technologies
installed, age of facility, all of which can influence water use and treatment. We analyze the performance of the best
performing plants to identify and share best practices.
The best performing vehicle assembly plants were Maserati Modena with a water withdrawal of 0.77 m3 per vehicle
produced and Tychy with a water withdrawal of 0.86 m3 per vehicle produced. However, 42% of our vehicle assembly
plants performed better than our medium-term target of 3.0 m3 per vehicle produced.
The majority of water withdrawn is used in Manufacturing activities for the following processes:
● vehicle painting
● cooling
● cleaning processes
● sprinkler systems
● sanitation and hygiene
● drinking water.
The majority of water withdrawn for Retail activities is used for the following processes:
● sanitation and hygiene
● drinking water
● car washing in dealerships and workshops.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
■ Water discharged and pollution control
In 2022, we discharged in total 18,699 thousand m3 wastewater versus 19,148 thousand m3 in 2021, of which
18,323 thousand m3 versus 19,027 thousand m3 in 2021 was discharged by Manufacturing sites, and 376 thousand m3
versus 121 thousand m3 in 2021 for our Retail activities. We discharged 67% into third-party / municipal industrial sewer
systems, and 33% into surface waters (as in 2021). The wastewater discharge into the groundwater was negligible.
Stellantis did not directly discharge any wastewater into seawater or oceans.
Water discharge destination and volumes
67%
THIRD-PARTY /
MUNICIPAL WATER 67%
33%
SURFACE WATER
33%
2022
0%
GROUNDWATER 0% 2021
Like other industries that are using water for their production, vehicle manufacturing processes have some impact
on water quality. One of the impacts is from the presence of metals from processes and materials used for surface
treatment. Typical heavy metals are Cadmium (Cd), Chromium (Cr), Copper (Cu), Nickel (Ni), Lead (Pb) and Zinc (Zn). In
addition, physical chemistry parameters such as Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) and
Suspended Matter (SM) are typical water quality impacts from manufacturing operations of whatever kind. Therefore,
most of the plants monitor their wastewater discharge for these water quality factors as outlined within their operational
permit requirements.
Many jurisdictions have implemented regulations to control the discharge of heavy metals. These regulations are regularly
revised to increase the list of controlled substances or to further decrease emission limit values. These modifications are
reflected in changes to the operational permits of our plants, which also specify the frequency of measurements and
controls.
Meeting legal and permit requirements is a given, however, we aim to discharge wastewater with regulated constituents
at levels below legal limits. As such, we regularly measure and analyze the quality of wastewater produced to obtain
a comprehensive view of the impact on water quality. All production plants active in 2022 were serviced by either an
internal or external wastewater treatment plant.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
Heavy metal loads
32 kg 2022
CADMIUM
63 kg 2021
665 kg
CHROMIUM
253 kg
287 kg
COPPER
1,049 kg
178 kg
LEAD
117 kg
3,972 kg
NICKEL
11,702 kg
5,737 kg
ZINC
10,096 kg
Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) and Suspended Matter (SM)
2022
1,474 tons
BOD 2021 1,376 tons
3,577 tons
COD
3,316 tons
439 tons
SM 439 tons
The loads shown in the charts above include heavy metal loads for Stellantis plants in 2022. The loads were calculated
with concentrations measured at the discharge monitoring points of our sites.
■ Water consumption
Water consumption is defined as water withdrawn minus water discharged. In 2022, we consumed a total amount of
water of 7,962 thousand m3 versus 8,392 thousand m3 in 2021, of which 7,962 thousand m3 versus 8,115 thousand m3 in
2021 at manufacturing facilities. The water consumption at our retail sites is negligible.
Water discharged could increase or decrease because of rainwater, consumption or evaporation from operations that
have exposed water functions, such as water-cooling towers. Some older plants do not have a separate sewer system for
the collection and discharge of rainwater versus process wastewater or sanitary wastewater. In these cases, the municipal
or Stellantis wastewater treatment plant must treat all such water discharge volumes, increasing its costs and our tax
expenditures.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.6.4.2 Main initiatives on water management GRI 303-3 GRI 303-4 GRI 303-5
As outlined in section 6.6.3 , the main two water risks impacting operational management are related to water shortage For more information refer to 6.6.3
resulting in increasing pressure of authorities to reduce water withdrawal as well as establishing more stringent
discharge values to secure water quality. We apply best practices to support plants with the reduction of water usage
and improvement of water quality.
For the water stress risk evaluation, the Company uses the Baseline scenario (2019) of the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas
and for future risk evaluation the Business as usual scenario 2030. Water stress is an indicator of competition for water
resources and is defined informally as the ratio of demand for water by human society divided by available water. In
2022, 35 plants were located in a high or extremely high water-stressed area versus 36 in 2021 (according to the World
Resources Institute Aqueduct “baseline water stress” indicator) for a total water withdrawal of 7,361 thousand m3 versus
7,243 thousand m3 in 2021 and 4,849 thousand m3 versus 5,0932 thousand m3 in 2021 of water discharge. For future risk
evaluation Business as usual scenario 2030 44 plants are affected.
Some examples of successful initiatives to reduce water usage or improve water quality:
Avoid or reduce losses and leakages:
■ At our vehicle assembly plant in Cassino (Italy) we used ground-penetrating radar (GPR) to identify leakages in the
underground pipes of the fire-fighting system. The leakage repair enabled us to save approximately 43,200 m3 per year.
■ At our vehicle assembly plant in Luton (UK), a leak detection survey and repair of the underground pipes was conducted
that resulted in a water saving of approximately 17,000 m3 annually.
Cooling water reuse:
■ A new cooling water recirculation system was installed in our Teksid Aluminum foundry plant in Carmagnola (Italy)
which results in a partial flow of the cooling water that was previously used in once-through cooling is now
recirculated. About 40% of the previously used cooling water is reused in the circuit, resulting in annual savings of
around 490,000 m3.
Process improvement:
■ At our vehicle assembly plant in Atessa (Italy), we improved the steam generation system by reducing steam losses,
which is associated with a reduction in water makeup and enabled us to save approximately 27,000 m3 per year and in
addition reduces the energy consumption by approximately 1,100 MWh annually.
■ At our vehicle assembly plant in Mirafiori (Italy), we use recirculated wastewater from the wastewater treatment plant
in the spray booth dust abatement system, instead of fresh water. This process saved approximately 10,000 m3 water
annually.
2 The 2021 water discharge figures have been corrected.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
■ At our Warren Truck Assembly Plant (U.S.), we reduced water consumption per vehicle by 41%, through several measures
in the phosphate process in the two paint shops. This included optimization of spraying systems, downtime curtailment
improvements, automated rinse spray control systems and tank level control adjustments. This results in a forecasted
water reduction of approximately 500,000 m3 in 2023.
■ At our powertrain plant in Szentgotthard (Hungary) we implemented in Reverse Osmosis (RO) technology as ion-free
water instead of ion-exchanged water. This and other activities at the plant resulted in water savings of approximately
972 m3 annually.
6.6.5 DETAILED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
GRI 303-1 GRI 303-3 GRI 303-4
GRI 303-5 GRI 413-2
6.6.5.1 Annual water withdrawn2 by business, geographical area and source (in thousands of m3)
Water Withdrawn 3rd party or municipal water Surface water Groundwater
2022 5,102 4,012 4,243
Enlarged Europe
2021 5,427 4,114 4,583
2022 9,626 0 1,425
North America
2021 9,782 24 1,456
Manufacturing 2022 1,050 2 526
South America
Activities 2021 957 81 465
2022 171 0 0
Middle East & Africa
2021 178 0 0
2022 67 0 61
China and India & Asia
Pacific 2021 39 0 36
2022 16,016 4,014 6,255
Total Manufacturing Activities
2021 16,383 4,219 6,540
2022 376 0 0
Retail
2021 398 0 0
2022 16,392 4,014 6,255
Subtotal
2021 16,781 4,219 6,540
2022 26,661
Total
2021 27,540
2 Excluding cooling water for cogeneration plants, remediation activities and water provided to 3rd parties, tenants unrelated to Stellantis operations.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.6.5.2 Annual water discharge by business, region and destination (in thousands of m3)
Water Discharge 3rd party or municipal water Surface water Groundwater
2022 5,086 5,196 0
Enlarged Europe
2021 5,364 5,777 0
2022 6,797 142 0
North America
2021 6,881 149 0
Manufacturing 2022 232 704 0
South America
Activities 2021 385 369 0
2022 94 0 0
Middle East & Africa
2021 76 0 0
2022 0 11 61
China and India & Asia
Pacific 2021 11 0 15
2022 12,209 6,053 61
Total Manufacturing Activities
2021 12,717 6,295 15
2022 374 2 0
Retail
2021 112 9 0
2022 12,583 6,055 61
Subtotal
2021 12,829 6,304 15
2022 18,699
Total
2021 19,148
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.6.5.3 Annual total water consumed by business and region (in thousands of m3)
Water Consumed Total water withdrawn Total water discharged Total water consumed
2022 13,357 10,282 3,075
Enlarged Europe
2021 14,124 11,141 2,983
2022 11,051 6,939 4,112
North America
2021 11,262 7,030 4,232
Manufacturing 2022 1,578 936 642
South America
Activities 2021 1,503 754 749
2022 171 94 77
Middle East & Africa
2021 178 76 102
2022 128 72 56
China and India &
Asia Pacific 2021 75 26 49
2022 26,285 18,323 7,962
Total Manufacturing Activities
2021 27,142 19,027 8,115
2022 376 376 0
Retail
2021 398 121 277
2022 26,661 18,699 7,962
Total
2021 27,540 19,148 8,392
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.6.5.4 Percentage of freshwater over total water withdrawn and over total water discharged (in percent)
We do not withdraw seawater, therefore we consider:
freshwater withdrawn = 100%
freshwater discharge = 100%
6.6.5.5 Annual water withdrawn and discharge from water stressed areas by region (in thousands of m3)
Water stressed areas according Total water Total water Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas
to Aqueduct Risk Atlas withdrawn discharge https://wri.org/aqueduct
Geographical Area Plant name high extremely high m3 m3
2022 X 665,624 665,624
Atessa Plant
2021 X 870,733 788,933
2022 X 9,198 9,198
Atessa Plastic
2021 X 8,090 8,090
2022 X 83,389 68,211
Caen
2021 X 84,223 63,507
2022 X 254,610 254,595
Cassino Plant
2021 X 258,607 258,607
Cassino Press 2022 X 30,156 29,545
Shop Plant 2021 X 31,482 31,462
Cento Engine 2022 X 12,654 9,145
Enlarged Europe
Plant 2021 X 12,765 6,469
2022 X 226,881 62,733
Charleville
2021 X 205,257 113,678
2022 X 218,503 61,203
Douvrin (FM)
2021 X 212,379 81,230
2022 X 121,779 121,779
Eisenach
2021 X 81,452 81,452
2022 X 229,011 203,141
Hordain
2021 X 229,829 229,829
2022 X 501,064 294,579
Luton IBC
2021 X 290,065 286,083
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
Water stressed areas according Total water Total water Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas
to Aqueduct Risk Atlas withdrawn discharge https://wri.org/aqueduct
Geographical Area Plant name high extremely high m3 m3
2022 X 114,383 114,383
Madrid
2021 X 98,036 98,036
2022 X 679,950 569,840
Melfi Plant
2021 X 745,820 645,350
2022 X 2,368 2,368
Melfi Press Shop
Plant 2021 X incl. in 2021 incl. in 2021 Melfi Plant data Melfi Plant data
2022 plant closed in 2022
PCMA Napoli
2021 X 26,971 24,273
2022 X 504 504
PCMA Tito Scalo
2021 X 533 288
Pratola Serra 2022 X 105,375 59,768
Powertrain Plant 2021 X 117,793 74,183
2022 X 134,290 43,807
Rennes
2021 X 101,509 42,547
2022 X 855,609 844,721
Enlarged Europe Rüsselsheim
2021 X 951,470 951,470
Termoli 2022 X 309,981 237,937
Powertrain Plant 2021 X 279,587 202,656
2022 X 4,356 4,356
USL Cassino Plant
2021 X 2,488 2,488
USL Villa Santa 2022 X 3,322 3,322
Lucia Plant 2021 X 3,441 3,441
2022 X 85,460 38,843
Valenciennes
2021 X 85,826 38,191
Vico Pomigliano 2022 X 448,945 406,170
d'Arco Plant 2021 X 392,233 355,149
Vico Pomigliano 2022 X 2,934 2,834
d'Arco Press Shop
Plant 2021 X 1,750 1,750
2022 X 965,108 573,820
Zaragoza
2021 X 834,631 594,320
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
Water stressed areas according Total water Total water Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas
to Aqueduct Risk Atlas withdrawn discharge https://wri.org/aqueduct
Geographical Area Plant name high extremely high m3 m3
Saltillo Complex - 2022 X 480,870 0
Assembly Plant 2021 X 514,793 0
Saltillo North 2022 X 202,753 0
Engine Plant 2021 X 168,137 1,200
Saltillo South 2022 X 89,906 0
Engine Plant 2021 X 89,238 0
North America
Saltillo Van 2022 X 159,139 0
Assembly Plant 2021 X 168,704 0
Teksid Hierro de 2022 X 96,367 0
Mexico Plant 2021 X 100,399 0
Toluca Complex - 2022 X 199,008 99,599
Assembly Plant 2021 X 235,166 90,221
2022 X 5,225 4,812
PCMA Bursa
2021 X 3,306 2,777
Middle East & Africa PCMA Bursa 2022 X 1,602 1,485
Mechanical
Control Systems 2021 X 1,043 991
2022 X 20,259 20,258
Hosur
China and India & 2021 X 19,107 14,489
Asia Pacific 2022 X 40,872 40,651
Thiruvallur
2021 X 16,624 not available
2022 8 27 7,361,455 4,849,230
Total
2021 8 28 7,243,488 5,093,160*
* The 2021 water discharge figures have been corrected.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.6.5.6 Annual heavy metals discharge (loads) into water (in kg)
Cadmium Chromium Copper Lead Nickel Zinc
(Cd) (Cr) (Cu) (Pb) (Ni) (Zn)
2022 11 120 133 47 1,221 4,204
Enlarged Europe
2021 54 20 960 22 934 7,996
2022 15 372 130 87 2,650 1,365
North America
2021 9 232 82 89 10,739 1,751
Manufacturing 2022 3 171 20 43 95 104
South America
Activities 2021 0 0 4 5 26 101
2022 3 2 4 1 3 63
Middle East & Africa
2021 0 1 3 1 1 248
China and India & 2022 0 0 0 0 3 1
Asia Pacific 2021 0 0 0 0 2 0
2022 32 665 287 178 3,972 5,737
Total (kg/year)
2021 63 253 1,049 117 11,702 10,096
6.6.5.7 Annual COB, BOD, suspended matters discharge (loads) into water (in tons)
COD BOD SM (TSS)
2022 1,676 737 314
Enlarged Europe
2021 1,563 554 275
2022 1,832 703 99
North America
2021 1,678 800 138
Manufacturing 2022 41 26 12
South America
Activities 2021 42 15 6
2022 28 8 14
Middle East & Africa
2021 32 7 20
China and India & 2022 0 0 0
Asia Pacific 2021 1 0 0
2022 3,577 1,474 439
Total (tons/year)
2021 3,316 1,376 439
BOD = Biochemical Oxygen Demand; COD = Chemical Oxygen Demand; SM = Suspended Matter (TSS = Total Suspended Solid)
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.7 Protection of biodiversity
6.7.1 CONTEXT AND STELLANTIS POSITION GRI 3-3
19 Protection of biodiversity
CSR issue/challenge #19: Protection of biodiversity
The World Economic Forum’s Global Risks Report 2020 ranks biodiversity loss and damage to the ecosystem as one of Global Risks Report 2020
the top five risks of likelihood and impact in the coming ten years. It is closely linked with other top risks identified such https://www.weforum.org/reports/
the-global-risks-report-2020
as climate change, extreme weather and natural disasters highlighting the complexity of nature, and the volatile ways of
impacting us as human beings and industrial corporations.
Even though the protection of biodiversity is a complex process and the impact of the Company’s manufacturing operations
on biodiversity is relatively limited, Stellantis has implemented dedicated measures aimed at further minimizing this issue,
such as the commitment to a progressive approach to reduce impacts first, then restore and finally recover biodiversity.
New operations on protected areas are prohibited. When Stellantis already operates in such areas, it applies mitigation
hierarchy aimed at minimizing impact, including offsets for any remaining residual impact. Biodiversity protection activities
at our sites are focused on biodiversity inventories, awareness campaigns for employees, and other stakeholders such
as the community surrounding our manufacturing facilities, and working with students, all for preservation of natural
habitats near its areas of operations.
Company’s public position
Stellantis plants endeavor to ensure biodiversity knowledge and preventative actions relevant to their geographic scope
along with the development of biodiversity on the related sites by preserving natural habitats and by implementing
projects. Stellantis is currently assessing different biodiversity management tools in order to meet the upcoming
requirements stemming from the European Taxonomy legislative proposal.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.7.2 FORWARD-LOOKING VISION AND TARGETS
Commitment scoreboard
CSR ISSUE/ VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT RESULTS
CHALLENGE
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term 2022 2021
(End of Strategic Plan)
Protection of Ensure the development Percentage of plants that 2025: 60% 2030: 100% 2050: strategic 29% 26%
19
biodiversity of biodiversity on our have done a RENATU partnership for
Owner: sites by preserving evaluation and are global biodiversity
Chief Manufacturing natural habitats developing biodiversity program.
Officer projects
6.7.3 IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
6.7.3.1 Risks
Stellantis identified some risks and has implemented several actions and initiative to mitigate them.
■ Potential risks for the business:
● Dependency of business on natural resources such as air, soil or water for its direct operations or indirect supply
chain. According to the New Nature Economy Report 2020 issued by World Economic Forum, the automotive
industry’s dependency on nature is assessed to be low to medium for its direct gross value added, whereas the gross
value added of the automotive industry’s supply chain was assessed to be more dependent on nature and therefore
referred to as a “hidden dependency.”
● Loss in nature causing socio-economic instability in countries of operation resulting in disrupted business continuity
or loss in markets.
■ Potential risk for operational management:
● Regulatory and legal risk of increased governmental actions on biodiversity are expected, such as restrictions on
land usage or usage of ecosystem services. Potential increase in taxes, insurance premiums, new trade directives or
reforming subsidies and increased disclosure requirements may be expected. Similarly, potential decrease in property
sale and lease income is possible due to use and deed restrictions.
● Climate change causing loss in natural habitats such as forests that were served as important buffer areas during
extreme weather events may lead to the potential for severe impact on business continuity.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
● Value of real estate may be endangered by invasive species or diseases, causing costs for removal, pest control,
subsequent remedy measures and potential legal proceedings if surrounding areas are affected.
■ Potential reputational risk:
● Being held responsible by customers or the general public for loss in biodiversity from building new or expanding
facilities, by materials or technology used in products or sourcing of raw material in its supply chain, and emissions
from our products. This may result in a negative impact to our brands’ value, customer defection, loss of profit and
conflicts with neighboring community.
6.7.3.2 Opportunities
Stellantis identified opportunities and has implemented several actions to seize them.
■ Opportunities for the business:
● Corporate land areas can be an important contribution to climate action, for example as a source of carbon
sequestration or increased resilience for the human-made, built and natural environments.
● Major infrastructure projects or expansion of existing facilities are highly dependent on stakeholder acceptance.
Integrating conservation measures as part of the site selection and implementation can help with adding value to
neighboring communities and building acceptance with stakeholders.
● Work with supply chain to reduce indirect impact on biodiversity loss and reduce hidden dependency of the
automotive industry.
■ Opportunities for operational management:
● Stellantis conservation and education activities contribute to maintaining a social acceptance to operate.
● Conservation measures may also add value to the real estate property or may increase its resistance toward climate
change related extreme weather such as droughts, floods, etc. besides providing a more attractive environment for
employees.
■ Opportunities for company reputation:
● Stellantis conservation practices on corporate land demonstrate a long-term commitment to quality habitat for
wildlife, conservation education and community outreach initiatives.
● Talent attraction and retention by offering employee biodiversity engagement activities that meet a variety of needs
including work-life balance, health and wellness and providing value to the communities in which Stellantis operates.
● Communicating a company’s efforts to further biodiversity and sustainability is an important driver to gaining value
to a company’s social acceptance to operate and positive brand value.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.7.4 MAIN INITIATIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND RESULTS GRI 304-2 GRI 413-2
Stellantis uses the tool RENATU to evaluate biodiversity at green areas located at its production facilities. RENATU is a
self-assessment tool developed to evaluate the biodiversity of industrial sites or developed areas. It was developed by the
University of Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne and has been designed and scientifically validated within the framework of the
Infrastructure de Transport Terrestre ECOsystème et Paysage (ITTECOP) program of the French Ministry of the Ecological
Transition and Solidarity.
The RENATU indicator consists of 11 categories that address items such as: invasive species, various vegetation layers,
the presence of microhabitats, nesting sites and distance to biodiversity reservoirs. The assessment is conducted by site
walkthroughs and data analysis. Each category is rated to determine the total score.
In 2021, Stellantis started to roll-out RENATU at its production facilities. In 2022, 89% of Stellantis production facilities
have conducted a RENATU evaluation, the average score obtained was 34.64 points (out of 55 points maximum) with
11.39 points achieved by the lowest scoring plant and 52.88 points by the best scoring plant. Opportunities for improving
green areas to attract more biodiversity remain subject to plant specific situations.
However, by evaluating the undeveloped areas within the plant, the main purpose for using RENATU is to raise awareness
for biodiversity issues on site, to enable a simplified assessment and monitoring, and to encourage developing ideas for
preserving or improving biodiversity at the green spots of the industrial facilities.
We defined our approach towards biodiversity implemented projects. 29% of Stellantis production facilities has conducted
a RENATU evaluation and implemented a biodiversity project- a solid base for growth in the next years. This represents
an increase of 3 % versus 2021.
Most of Stellantis production facilities are located in suburban industrial areas. However 64 plants are located less than
5 km away from a nature protected area . Stellantis also has a historical presence in territories that later became natural For an overview table refer to 6.7.5
protected areas. For those areas, Stellantis operates with consideration of the surrounding environment, striving to
preserve and avoid, as much as possible, further expansion of its operations.
We developed biodiversity projects that involve activities such as restoration, conservation or monitoring measures. To
ensure we develop projects meaningful for the environment, we engaged third-party experts who helped us plan, verify
Etobicoke Casting Plant urban
or certify our projects. Third-party experts include universities or other scientific research institutes, Non-Governmental
forest recognized by the
Organizations (NGO) engaged in biodiversity or nature protection, professional biodiversity consultants or local regulators.
Ontario Ministry of Natural
Stellantis works with Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) for biodiversity project certification. In 2022, we had 17 certified Resources
sites located in Canada, Germany, Hungary, Poland, Spain, the United Kingdom and the United States. The Stellantis U.S.
headquarters and Technology Center in Michigan (U.S.) was awarded a WHC certified Gold status for its biodiversity
program. And there are 16 certified production facilities three of which are WHC certified Silver.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.7.4.1 Initiatives to support and restore biodiversity GRI 304-3
In 2022, we had 59 biodiversity projects implemented. The following summaries represent examples of Stellantis
biodiversity projects:
Etobicoke Casting Plant urban forest recognized:
■ An urban forest tucked in behind the Etobicoke Casting Plant (U.S.) has been recognized for its biodiversity and employee
stewardship in a new, special report from the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC). This urban forest was created on an area
of 10 hectares where excavated material gradually piled up, creating a space with varied topography, including hills and
valleys, an elevated, grassy plateau and marshlands and waterbodies. A concentrated effort by the Environmental Health
and Safety team to conserve and care for the urban forest began last decade. Employees cordoned off the area using
fencing that prevented trespassing while allowing wildlife to enter. In 2016, the team stopped mowing the plateau and
seeded it with native wildflowers including milkweed. They also planted 1,200 coniferous seedlings, including spruce, cedar
and pine trees, to expand the wooded parts of the habitat. Recent monitoring data indicates that trees are now quickly
establishing, and that the habitat’s no-mow policy has allowed an ecotone of shrubs to form between the grassland and
wooded area. Rabbits, squirrels, possums and more than ten species of birds have been observed in the forest, and the
habitat has also been recognized as a Managed Urban Forest by the Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources.
Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) projects:
■ Saltillo Truck Assembly Plant has become the first Stellantis facility to receive Wildlife Habitat Council Conservation
Certification in Mexico. The Silver Certification was awarded based on the biodiversity initiatives implemented at the
Plant associated with reptiles, dotted squirrels and environmental education. A biodiversity inventory was completed
at the Plant to understand the variety of species at the Plant and educate employees. In addition, the Plant instituted
management protocol for reptiles and habitat preservation and enhancement for the squirrels.
■ Windsor Assembly Plant has been hosting biodiversity events at the Plant since 2009 and has had Wildlife Habitat Council
(WHC) Conservation Certification since 2018 with a program designed to enhance the local biodiversity by planning and
maintain an urban forest project, engaging with employees, their families and the local community by holding photo and
artwork contests, cleanup days, community gardens, and naturalization of green spaces in and around the plant. The Plant
was also the recipient of the inaugural WHC Ibis Award in 2021. The Ibis Award recognizes a WHC Certified program that
has demonstrated resilience of spirit and advancement of conservation despite lockdowns, quarantines and additional
government-mandated regulations. The Plant continues to implement new and exciting biodiversity events every year.
■ The assembly plant in Zaragoza, Spain, runs a biodiversity program that has received “Silver” certification by the Wildlife
Habitat Council (WHC) in January 2022. The program includes native tree and shrubs planting in three areas at the site,
using local species that are adopted to the soil, water and climate conditions in that region. Continuous monitoring
proves that the prepared conditions are well suited to provide food and shelter for a wide variety of pollinators and also
reptiles, e.g., the Iberian lizard (podarcis hispanica).
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
Biodiversity conservation projects:
■ The powertrain plant in Tychy, Poland, has created, in collaboration with the Silesian Botanical Garden, a pollinator
garden, and is maintaining and enhancing its biodiversity status continuously since a few years. The recent activities
include planting several types of native trees and shrubs with edible fruit for birds and installing insect hotels. The project
includes awareness-raising of our employees, in providing information about the new plantations, their importance for
endangered species of the local habitat, and about feeding birds in winter. The whole concept and architectural design
were prepared by specialists from the Silesian Botanical Garden.
Urban Nature Trail project:
■ As part of the investment made to build the new Detroit Assembly Complex Mack plant (U.S.), Stellantis made a
commitment to support the local community to reduce the impact of the new plant on the neighborhood. This
commitment included the installation of 500 trees along streets, parks, and on lots where residents requested; the
donation of 100 free rain barrels; and the creation of an "Urban Nature Trail" at a stormwater detention area constructed
for the project. Stellantis took this unique opportunity to install an interactive walking path with nine stations where
individuals can take a break and learn about important aspects like: stormwater management, rain gardens, pollinator
gardens, trees, bat habitat, invasive species, and much more. Additionally, the pavilion installed at the park is utilized as
an outdoor classroom for local school students in the partnership program with Stellantis.
Amazon Forest Carbon Sink Project
The Peugeot Brand in partnership with the French National Forestry Office (ONF) is contributing to the PEUGEOT-
ONF forest carbon sink project in Mato Grosso, Brazil since 1998. The project involves reforesting of degraded land and
restoring biodiversity while studying the relationship between reforestation and the absorption of atmospheric carbon
dioxide. The total amount of carbon sequestrated by biomass and soil was estimated to be more than 604,000 tons of
CO² equivalent according to the measurement methods of the Verified Carbon Standard (VCS). The VCU are sold under the
VCS protocol and revenues are systematically reinvested in the project. Two million trees including more than 50 native
species, were reintroduced in a plantation of nearly 2,000 hectares. After 20 years of implementation, ONFI and ONFB
teams led an innovative carbon assessment based on remote sensing analysis in order to identify the most relevant areas to
be densified by additional plantations. Thanks to this initiative we should be able to reach more than one million tons of CO²
equivalent by 2038. At the heart of the project, an area of 1,800 hectares of virgin forest with high biodiversity value has been
devoted to scientific research and placed under the status of Reserva de Patrimonio Natural (RPPN) since 2009.
Part of the project includes a field laboratory, the Fazenda São Nicolau, which welcomes students and researchers from
various partner institutions. On-site investigations have led – amongst other findings – to the discovery of more than
40 new species, among them a fish named Hyphessobrycon peugeoti and a beetle called Hansreia peugeoti. Numerous
academic papers, PhDs and books have been published thanks to the research studies conducted at the Fazenda.
These research activities are supervised by a Scientific and Technical Committee composed of Brazilian and international
specialists who are acknowledged leaders in the topics addressed in the project.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
6.7.5 DETAILED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS GRI 304-1 GRI 304-2 GRI 304-3
6.7.5.1 Plants located within or near (< 5 km) a natural protected area
Region Plant Plant activity Surface occupied (m2) Type of natural protected area
2022 191,166 IUCN Category IV Habitat/Species Management Aspern Powertrain Plant
2021 191,166 Area
2022 1,001,930
Atessa Car Plant Natura 2000
2021 1,001,930
2022 122,715
Bielsko Biala Powertrain Plant Natura 2000
2021 89,500
2022 195,078 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Charleville Foundry
2021 195,078 Federal legislation
2022 261,859
Eisenach Car Plant Natura 2000
2021 261,859
2022 327,287 IUCN Category IV Habitat/Species Management
Gliwice Car Plant
2021 327,287 Area
Grugliasco Avvocato 2022 106,250 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Component Plant
Giovanni Agnelli Plant 2021 184,000 Federal legislation
Enlarged
Europe Grugliasco Mould 2022 6,594 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Component Plant
Shop 2021 6,594 Federal legislation
2022 654,824 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Hordain Car Plant
2021 654,824 Federal legislation
2022 607,601 IUCN Category IV Habitat/Species Management Area,
IUCN Category V Protected Landscape/ Seascape,
Kaiserslautern Component Plant
2021 607,601 Natura 2000, Natural Protected Area according to
State or Federal legislation
2022 210,432 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Luton IBC Car Plant
2021 210,432 Federal legislation
2022 1,758,555 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Melfi Plant Car Plant
2021 1,811,183 Federal legislation
Melfi Press Shop 2022 92,855 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Component Plant
Plant 2021 40,227 Federal legislation
2022 233,428 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Metz Powertrain Plant
2021 233,428 Federal legislation
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
Region Plant Plant activity Surface occupied (m2) Type of natural protected area
2022 2,218,647
Mulhouse Car Plant Natura 2000
2021 2,113,096
PCMA Venaria 2022 5,460
Component Plant IUCN Category II National Park
Reale 2021 5,460
PCMA Venaria 2022 18,123
Component Plant IUCN Category II National Park
Reale SBH 2021 18,123
2022 830,307 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Rennes Car Plant
2021 830,307 Federal legislation
2022 1,916,523 Natura 2000, Natural Protected Area according to Rüsselsheim Car Plant
2021 1,916,523 State or Federal legislation
2022 97,868
Sept Fons Foundry Natura 2000
2021 97,868
2022 1,956,100 IUCN Category IV Habitat/Species Management
Sochaux Car Plant
2021 1,956,100 Area
2022 205,822 Natura 2000, RAMSAR Site (Convention on
Szentgotthárd Powertrain Plant
Enlarged 2021 205,822 Wetlands)
Europe 2022 85,000
Teksid Iron Poland Foundry Natura 2000
2021 85,000
2022 263,128
Termoli Powertrain Plant Natura 2000
2021 263,128
Torino Mirafiori 2022 737,500
Car Plant Natura 2000
Plant 2021 971,800
Torino Mirafiori 2022 213,131
Component Plant Natura 2000
Press Shop Plant 2021 213,131
Torino Mirafiori 2022 437,000
Powertrain Plant Natura 2000
PWT 2021 11,304
2022 561,819 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Trémery Powertrain Plant
2021 561,819 Federal legislation
2022 807,470
Trnava Car Plant Natura 2000
2021 807,470
2022 118,326 Natura 2000, Natural Protected Area according to
Tychy Powertrain Plant
2021 118,326 State or Federal legislation.
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
Region Plant Plant activity Surface occupied (m2) Type of natural protected area
2022 311,808
Valenciennes Powertrain Plant IUCN Category V Protected Landscape/ Seascape
2021 311,808
2022 553,000
Verrone Powertrain Plant Natura 2000
2021 100,300
Enlarged
Europe 2022 942,166 IUCN Category Ia Strict Nature Reserve
Vesoul Powertrain Plant IUCN Category IV Habitat/Species Management Area
2021 932,920 Natura 2000
2022 1,104,936 IUCN Category IV Habitat/Species Management
Zaragoza Car Plant
2021 1,176,604 Area, Natura 2000
2022 53,615 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Autodie Component Plant
2021 53,615 Federal legislation
Belvidere Assembly 2022 922,000 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Car Plant
Plant 2021 922,000 Federal legislation
Brampton Assembly 2022 470,000 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Car Plant
Plant 2021 470,000 Federal legislation
Cpk Belleville 2022 6,200 Natural Protected Area according to State or Component Plant
Manufacturing Plant 2021 6,200 Federal legislation
Cpk Guelph 2022 49,215 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Component Plant
Manufacturing Plant 2021 49,215 Federal legislation
Cpk Hope 2022 43,531 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Component Plant
North Manufacturing Plant 2021 43,531 Federal legislation
America Detroit Assembly 2022 733,000 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Car Plant
Complex Jefferson 2021 733,000 Federal legislation
Detroit Assembly 2022 676,338 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Car Plant
Complex Mack 2021 676,338 Federal legislation
Dundee Engine 2022 228,000 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Powertrain Plant
Plant 2021 228,000 Federal legislation
Etobicoke Casting 2022 69,600 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Foundry
Plant 2021 69,600 Federal legislation
Indiana 2022 622,202 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Powertrain Plant
Transmission Plant 2021 709,371 Federal legislation
Kokomo Casting 2022 385,820 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Foundry
Plant 2021 385,820 Federal legislation
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
Region Plant Plant activity Surface occupied (m2) Type of natural protected area
Kokomo 2022 397,000 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Powertrain Plant
Transmission Plant 2021 397,000 Federal legislation
Kokomo Engine 2022 87,170 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Powertrain Plant
Plant 2021 87,170 Federal legislation
Sterling Heights 2022 1,141,000 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Car Plant
Assembly Plant 2021 1,141,000 Federal legislation
Sterling Stamping 2022 650,000 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Car Plant
North Plant 2021 650,000 Federal legislation
America Tipton Transmission 2022 124,500 Natural Protected Area according to State or Powertrain
Plant 2021 124,500 Federal legislation
Toledo Assembly 2022 991,000 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Car Plant
Complex 2021 991,000 Federal legislation
Trenton Engine 2022 320,000 IUCN Category IV Habitat/Species Management
Powertrain Plant
Complex 2021 320,000 Area
Windsor Assembly 2022 719,000 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Car Plant
Plant 2021 719,000 Federal legislation
Betim Assembly 2022 2,124,464 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Car Plant
Plant 2021 2,124,464 Federal legislation
2022 121,481 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Betim PWT Plant Powertrain
2021 121,481 Federal legislation
2022 1,245,700 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Campo Largo Powertrain
2021 1,245,700 Federal legislation
2022 32,000 IUCN Category VI Protected area with sustainable
CMA Goiana Component Plant
2021 32,000 use of natural resources
South America
Goiana Assembly 2022 369,550 IUCN Category VI Protected area with sustainable
Car Plant
Plant 2021 369,550 use of natural resources
Jaboatão dos 2022 191,232
Component Plant IUCN Category Ia Strict Nature Reserve
Guarapes Plant 2021 191,232
2022 539,274 IUCN Category IV Habitat/Species Management
Palomar Car Plant
2021 619,074 Area
2022 1,162,135 Natural Protected Area according to State or
Porto Real Car Plant
2021 1,162,135 Federal legislation
SECRUOSER
LARUTAN
FO
ESU
ELBISNOPSER
GNITNEMELPMI
DNA
NOITCETORP
GNITOMORP
6
Region Plant Plant activity Surface occupied (m2) Type of natural protected area
2022 48,310 IUCN Category IV Habitat/Species Management
Hosur Powertrain
China and India 2021 48,310 Area
& Asia Pacific 2022 47,371
Thiruvallur Car Plant RAMSAR Site (Convention on Wetlands)
2021 98,874
6.7.5.2 RENATU evaluation and biodiversity projects
Average RENATU score Number of Plants with RENATU evaluation
Geographical Area (maximum score is 55 points) biodiversity projects and biodiversity project (%)
2022 36.03 22 23%
Enlarged Europe
2021 34.44 26 24%
2022 32.92 34 48%
North America
2021 29.26 26 41%
2022 35.97 3 25%
South America
2021 30.83 3 25%
2022 21.59 0 0%
Middle East & Africa
2021 19.62 0 0%
2022 32.66 0 0%
China and India & Asia
Pacific 2021 28.92 0 0%
2022 34.64 59 29%
Total
2021 32.57 55 26%
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
7 ENSURING PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS
AND SUPPORTING A BALANCED ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT OF TERRITORIES
7.1 RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING PRACTICES TO SUPPORT THE COMPANY’S DEVELOPMENT
IN HOST TERRITORIES 408
7.1.1 Context and Stellantis position 408
7.1.2 Forward-looking vision and targets 410
7.1.3 Identification and management of risks and opportunities 410
7.1.4 Governance and decision bodies to lead actions 416
7.1.5 Policies to execute the strategy 417
7.1.6 Organization and resources 420
7.1.7 Main initiatives, achievements and results 422
7.1.8 Detailed key performance indicators 430
7.2 HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN 434
7.2.1 Context and Stellantis position 434
7.2.2 Forward-looking vision and targets 435
7.2.3 Identification and management of risks and opportunities 435
7.2.4 Governance and decision bodies to lead actions 440
7.2.5 Policies to execute the strategy 442
7.2.6 Organization and resources 443
7.2.7 Main initiatives, achievements and results 445
7.2.8 Detailed key performance indicators 453
7.3 PHILANTHROPIC ACTIONS TO SUPPORT COMMUNITIES 454
7.3.1 Context and Stellantis position 454
7.3.2 Forward-looking vision and targets 454
7.3.3 Identification and management of risks and opportunities 455
7.3.4 Governance and decision bodies to lead actions 456
7.3.5 Policies to execute the strategy 457
7.3.6 Organization and resources 458
7.3.7 Main initiatives, achievements and results 459
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
STELLANTIS’ CSR MACRO-RISK/PILLAR VI. ENSURING PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS
AND SUPPORTING A BALANCED ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OF TERRITORIES
The automotive industry relies on global complex supply chains. This results in challenges for companies that have
established ethical and social standards to ensure that their principles are respected at all stages of the supply chain.
Conducting our business with sustainable business practices is a core value at Stellantis. We are firmly committed to act
in a socially responsible manner and in line with sustainable practices within Stellantis and at each level of the supply base
that includes; ensuring the health and safety of its workforce, prohibiting human rights violations such as child labor and
forced labor, and complying with conflict minerals and environmental protection regulations. We encourage the adoption
and sharing of sustainable practices among our business partners and suppliers at all levels in the supply chain.
Building strong responsible supply chains is an important focus for Stellantis. We use assessment tools that focus on
topics such as the environment, labor and human rights, ethics and sustainable procurement. This approach helps develop
opportunities within the supplier organizations while minimizing risk and potential reputational damage in the event of a
failure in the supply chain. Stellantis monitors compliance with its Code of Conduct and the respect for human rights by its
partners and subcontractors and by requiring contractual commitments and ongoing evaluations.
Stellantis pays particular attention to redistributing the value created for the benefit of the local communities where
the Company operates. We achieve these goals by providing employment opportunities and through our philanthropic
actions. Supplier localization is an important strategy. When suppliers are close to Stellantis manufacturing locations it
supports the local community and reduces the risk of supply disruption.
7.1 Responsible purchasing practices to support the Company’s
development in host territories
7.1.1 CONTEXT AND STELLANTIS POSITION GRI 2-28 GRI 3-3
CSR ISSUE/CHALLENGE #20: Responsible purchasing practices to support the Company’s 20 Responsible purchasing practices to
development in host territories support the Company’s development in
host territories
In order to support the Company's increasing internationalization and to reduce inequality in terms of economic
development in host communities, it is crucial to boost local production close to final markets. Stellantis implements
optimization measures such as: identifying local suppliers, supporting them in gaining necessary skills and we encourage
current suppliers to relocate closer to our facilities to be aligned to our long-term strategic plans for globalization. This
strategy has potential financial implications as it reduces inbound logistics costs, limits customs duties and reduces
exposure to exchange rate fluctuations which impact production cost, margins and sales volumes. Reduction of long
distance shipping benefits the environment by decreasing CO emissions.
2
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
Local sourcing allows us to better understand the expectations of stakeholders. Some of the expectations include
technological solutions which fit the context and constraints within the area; taking advantage of operational proximity
with partners; helping to achieve technological, logistical, social and environmental progress and benefiting from increased
flexibility in the supply chain.
Company’s public position
The monitoring of CSR issues related to supply chain management is of high importance to Stellantis. Responsibility
for managing the supply chain does not end at the Tier 1 level. Our processes and controls are designed to meet the
legislative requirements of France’s Duty of Vigilance, EU Conflict Minerals regulation, the U.S. Dodd Frank Act, and the
Modern Slavery Act and to extend these principles to the extended supply network including the sub-tier suppliers. The
Company seeks to build and sell vehicles that meet customer expectations in alignment with social, environmental and
ethical standards, taking inspiration from the United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights and the
International Labour Organization (ILO) rules for human rights such as child labor and forced labor . Stellantis renewed For more information refer
PSA’s membership in the UN Global Compact in 2021, and aligns with the principles of the Universal Declaration of to 7.1.5 and 7.2.5
Human Rights, the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the United Nations Convention
against Corruption . We acknowledge the necessity to comply with rules for the responsible sourcing of materials, such
as in the global battery value chain. Through the efforts of all companies the responsibilities are shared through our
extended supply network. To make sure that our principles are duly met, we conduct targeted audits where risks are
identified. We are vigilant with the implementation of measures within our sphere of influence. We seek to apply all
these goals, practices and responsibilities globally, in standard fashion, in all our locations and countries we operate,
and with our direct suppliers (Tier 1).
Involvement in host communities
The Company helps to set a context that is favorable to the development of the automotive industry including
manufacturers, suppliers and equipment manufacturers in host communities. Working both internationally and locally,
the Company is a stakeholder in initiatives to improve the automotive industry profile. A few examples of the work we do
are: membership with the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) which provides cross-sector engagement in responsible
mineral sourcing, and in France, we are working in coordination with the Automotive Platform (PFA) to define and
implement strategies for innovation, employment and skills. Stellantis also contributes revitalization funds to support the
development of companies of the future.
In order to maintain the competitiveness of Stellantis sites, it is key to be able to complement local sourcing with
competitive imported materials, while maintaining an environmental and social level playing field.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
7.1.2 FORWARD-LOOKING VISION AND TARGETS GRI 3-3
Commitment scoreboard
CSR ISSUE/ VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT RESULTS
CHALLENGE
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term 2022 2021
(End of Strategic Plan)
20 Responsible Ensure selection of % Annual Purchase Value 2025: 90% of APV 2030: 95% of APV 2050: Maintain 95% More than 87% More than 83% by 2
purchasing suppliers based on (APV) purchased from of direct material of direct material of APV for direct of APV evaluated providers (NQC and
practices to support quality, competitiveness, Tier 1 suppliers evaluated (parts) (parts); 75% of APV material; 90% APV by Ecovadis Ecovadis)
the Company’s and social, ethical on CSR of indirect material for indirect material
development in host and environmental
territories standards, hence Average CSR scores of 2025: 15% higher 2030: keep a positive 2050: keep a positive 16.1%* 16.2%
Owner: Chief supporting responsible Stellantis Tier 1 Suppliers gap of 15% gap of 15%
Purchasing & Supply economic development assessed by independent
Chain Officer in host territories third-party vs average CSR
scores of all companies
assessed by third party
* We have extended our network with many new, smaller suppliers located in emerging countries.
7.1.3 IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
Suppliers as key participants in the value-creation chain GRI 2-6 GRI 3-3
Responsibility for managing the supply network rests upon each participant of the supply chain. Stellantis aims to generate
direct and indirect income and employment opportunities for the communities where the business is located. Faced with
growing inequality in the economic development of the regions, it is vital to focus on redistributing the value created by
the companies in the local communities in which they operate. We have the opportunity to strengthen our reputation in
the territories and markets we operate in, as well as among civil society. When we enhance business opportunities in our
host territories we create mutually beneficial situations, which include effects like the reduction of logistics costs and its
carbon footprint, as well as employment stability for the area.
Stellantis has a direct contractual relationship with more than 2,000 Tier 1 suppliers in direct material. It requires all of
them to meet the CSR commitments set out in its Responsible Purchasing Guidelines . For more information refer to 7.2.5
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
Raw Material impact in % per Annual Purchasing Value Purchased globally Key Supply chain figures
23.4%
PLASTICS
19.1%
DIRECT TIER 1
18.7% SUPPLIERS
STEEL
18.5%
2022 2021
17.1% >2,000 >2,000 ELECTRONICS
18.3%
9.0%
COPPER
11.5%
COBALT, 8.7% NUMBER OF COUNTRIES
LITHIUM 5.8% OF OUR SUPPLY BASE
6.2% 2022 2021
ALUMINUM
8.7% >60 >60
5.3%
RUBBER 5.4%
4.4%
PGM1
6.6%
VALUE OF PURCHASES
PAINT AND 2.9% WORLDWIDE
COATINGS 2.3%
2022 2021
2.1% >98 >82
RARE EARTHS Bn EUR Bn EUR
1.7%
1.7%
GLASSES
1.8%
2022
0.5%
LEAD
0.4% 2021
The Stellantis supply chain has two main distinguishing features:
■ it is complex and involves a large number of different participants, starting from receiving a customer order which begins
the engagement with our suppliers for materials, goods and services, up to the delivery to our customers worldwide;
■ it must handle a wide diversity of possible combinations, and relies on its ability to successfully supply thousands of
component combinations, which depends on successful supplier operations.
1 Platinum Group Metals
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
SPHERE OF INFLUENCE IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
1 Tier 1 suppliers
2 Tier 2 suppliers
Electronics industry
3 Tier 3 suppliers
Plastics industry Other industries N Tier N suppliers
N
N
N N 2 N N Contractual relationships between
Stellantis and its Tier 1 suppliers
N
N 3 2 3 3 N Sphere of influence of Stellantis in its
supply chain
2 2 N
N N 2 Contractual relationships between
2 Stellantis’s Tier 1 suppliers and their
own supply chain
2 1 1 2
1
1
1
1 1
Other vehicles
manufacturers Other vehicles
manufacturers
Vehicles manufacturers
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
RISK #1
RISK #1 COMPLEXITY OF EXTENDED SUPPLY CHAINS
Complexity of extended supply chains
Risk Stellantis seeks to produce vehicles that are attractive to our global customers based on their diverse values and
Description preferences. Creating vehicles that delight the customer requires working with a complex and extended supply chain.
We might face the risk of not being able to procure what we need because of concerns regarding human rights
violations, market tensions, geopolitical disruptions, natural disasters and availability of natural resources, among
others. The expectations for treatment of people needs to be clear for all levels of the extended supply network . For more information related to human
Some countries have requirements for local sourcing content and Stellantis must address this factor and the issues that rights in the supply chain refer to 7.2
may arise. Financial risk for each entity in the supply chain is important to consider. Complex supply chains often require
a higher degree of coordination taking into account dependencies between supply chain entities and can be vulnerable
to disruption due to the many inputs. One additional risk is the shortage of important raw materials due to geopolitical
risks such as military or civilian conflicts and disorder or suddenly changing regulatory requirements becoming more
inconsistent from one country or region to another. One other result of this can be local and global pandemic shutdowns
that prevent actors at any level of the supply chain to produce goods and services as requested.
Negative impacts are caused by interruptions to the flow of material, whether raw material, parts or services. Failure
to apply appropriate supply chain management can have long lasting effects. An approach based on continuous risk
assessment with the objective of reducing exposure to risk and improving performance is an important strategy.
Stellantis aims to secure its global supply and avoid costly downtime in global production plants.
Potential Impact
▪ Increased environmental impact for CO emissions due to the distance traveled to provide the goods or services ;
2
▪ Human Rights violations in the extended supply network, especially in sub-tier sourcing ; For more information refer to 7.2
▪ disruption of the supply chain due to the
• failure or loss of suppliers
• raw material shortage both locally and global
• pandemic shutdowns or lower tier supplier disruptions;
▪ difficulty in accessing local skills among suppliers
▪ poor quality due to multiple points of input
▪ risk of counterfeiting and misuse of intellectual property could increase with many layers of sub-suppliers
▪ risk of losing parts interchangeability (increased diversity).
Mitigation Identify
Strategy ▪ Code of Conduct and Responsible Sourcing policy
▪ Supplier CSR assessments reviewed during sourcing
▪ Supply Chain CSR Risk profiling via annual risk mapping activities (including areal and country risk)
Monitor
▪ Increase transparency of relationships throughout the extended supply network by partnering with service
providers for supply chain mapping (RCS Global + battery suppliers or CMRT process, CDP and SGS)
▪ Worldwide monitoring for Stellantis Tier 1, some sub-tier for specific topics
▪ Supplier CSR assessments updated per specified frequency
Manage
▪ Audit activities to confirm compliance and discover areas for development and improved performance via an action plan
Additional ▪ Auto industry knowledge/resources/tools development via associations (RMI, DS, AIAG, etc)
Opportunities ▪ Supplier training events
▪ Collaborative innovation to gain insight into potential risks within the extended supply chain e.g. the risk of forced
labor in our supply chain beyond Tier 1 suppliers
▪ Optimization; process, development, schedule, industrial capacity
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
RISK #2 INEQUALITY OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IN HOST TERRITORIES RISK #2
Inequality of economic
Risk Inequality in economic development can cause problems with creating long term relationships within host territories
Description with our stakeholders and specifically with suppliers. It is beneficial to boost local production in order to support our development in host territories
increasing internationalization plans. When our suppliers are located close to our operations it drives more efficient
supply and helps to minimize environmental concerns, while providing improved economic opportunities for the entire
community.
Potential Impact
▪ when suppliers are positioned close to our operations we may avoid additional costs related to; logistics, customs
duties, carbon tax penalties, exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, while also benefiting from initiatives to drive
local economy development;
▪ failure to develop host territories could hinder Stellantis’ efforts to reduce scope 3 CO emissions from suppliers ; For more information refer to 2
2
▪ skeptical public opinion can occur regarding the redistribution of generated wealth if development of host territories
is lacking.
Mitigation Implementing measures in two separate areas:
Strategy ▪ identification of local suppliers and assisting them to gain the needed skills and operational capacity
▪ encourage our existing suppliers to relocate to clusters near to its facilities
By implementing these measures we are able to gain operational proximity which supports progress in technology,
CSR and logistics. We also improve supply chain flexibility and reduce supply chain risk. By enhancing control of Tier N
suppliers it is possible to take account of the supply risks inherent in the multi-layered subcontracting chain.
Additional ▪ reduce inbound logistics elements such as costs, CO emissions and time to deliver products and services to our
2
Opportunities operations
▪ better knowledge of local operating methods and in the local stakeholder expectations
▪ focusing on local supplier development can support suppliers becoming more competitive and could drive the ability
to access more international organizations in the future
▪ strengthen brand recognition and potentially increase sales of our products
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
RISK #3
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS FROM OPERATIONS AND NATURAL DISASTERS
RISK #3
WITHIN THE SUPPLY CHAIN
Environmental impacts from
Risk It is necessary to develop supply chains that are sustainable and can successfully manage multiple environmental operations and natural disasters
Description impacts; such as those related to their own operations, physical damage from natural disasters or supply shortages. within the supply chain
For activities related to supplier operations, starting from raw materials through to the production of goods and
services, environmental impacts need to be appropriately addressed with robust standard operating procedures. The
risk for supply disruption and reputational damage can occur if sufficient attention to an issue is lacking. Evaluating
the impact of procuring and transporting the products, goods and materials through the supply chain (from the
purchase of raw materials to network distribution) is essential to manage consumer expectations and the risks posed
from the increasing number, scope and ambition of regulatory requirements.
Potential Impact
▪ Ecosystem degradation , i.e., deforestation and mining For more information refer to 6.1.3
▪ climate change For more information refer to 2.3.1.2
▪ exposure to eco-taxes levied on transport, as well as fossil energy price fluctuations
▪ localized pollution impacts such as water, air and sound e.g., bauxite mining for aluminum production
Mitigation ▪ Optimize transport plans - development of alternate modes of transport
Strategy ▪ ISO 14001 certification of suppliers (via a Sustainability Assessment Questionnaire review) For more information refer to 2.7.3
▪ Engage key suppliers with major Annual Purchased Value coverage (83% of direct suppliers by turnover) with
corporate carbon accounting activities (via CDP in the short term)
Additional ▪ Reduce upstream and downstream delivery times
Opportunities ▪ Best practice sharing
▪ Improving transport costs upstream (parts)
IMPACT MEASUREMENT OF THE ELECTRIFICATION STRATEGY
Electrification relies on raw materials necessary to produce battery components. Stellantis’ Responsible Purchasing
Guideline integrate requirements regarding materials such as cobalt, where battery suppliers have obligations to
disclose their raw material suppliers. Stellantis annually maps the sourcing of materials that are essential to electric
vehicle battery manufacturing and is a member of the RMI to improve risk-identification in its supply chain.
Due diligence is specifically conducted in the cobalt, lithium, nickel and graphite supply chains for all Stellantis battery
suppliers in partnership with RCS Global, which conducted 30 external on-site audits (versus 40 in 2021) on critical
suppliers in 2022 . For more information refer to 7.2.7
Furthermore, in order to secure the supply of critical materials needed to produce low-emission vehicles, Stellantis
has reinforced its lithium supply with direct sourcing in Europe and North America. This local sourcing initiative will
facilitate due diligence and supply chain mapping regarding lithium . For more information refer to 2.7.3
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
7.1.4 GOVERNANCE AND DECISION BODIES TO LEAD ACTIONS
The Global Purchasing and Supply Chain organization (GPSC) is the interface between Stellantis and its supplier. The GPSC Global Purchasing and Supply
is responsible for meeting all legal and regulatory requirements under its scope and to mitigate exposure risk from its supply Chain organization (“GPSC”):
the interface between Stellantis
base by driving its suppliers to be compliant with these requirements.This is a major duty of care toward supplier management
and its suppliers
across the globe. To support the direction of the GPSC, the Global Purchasing and Supply Chain EVP is a direct report to the
CEO, and a member of the Top Executive Team, and as such, a member of the Company’s strategy council.
Global Purchasing and Supply Chain coordinates actions at different levels: centrally, in its international sites and within its
various local offices spread globally. To fulfill its role, the GPSC organizes the following priorities by seeking to ensure:
■ the competitiveness and responsible procurement of products, equipment and services purchased for the manufacture
of Stellantis vehicles and subassemblies by selecting accomplished responsible suppliers able to meet Stellantis’ and
stakeholder requirements
■ that suppliers provide the Company with innovative, sustainable solutions that can give it a competitive edge by liaising
closely with the Automotive Research and Advanced Engineering departments
■ that the Company benefits from the expertise of its suppliers on the best economic terms by continually recommending
improvements to quality and costs and seeing that they feed into all phases of the product life cycle
■ the quality and security of supplies by verifying that suppliers intrinsically meet the standards required by the Company
in terms of social and environmental responsibility, quality and logistics
■ that a panel of responsible, viable and capable suppliers is established by taking all the necessary actions to support and
secure the global supply chain in the best interests of Stellantis.
GPSC is globally focused while taking local action, as appropriate. To support this it is necessary to work closely with
other internal departments such as engineering, logistics, industrial and program teams and in general with all operating
entities within Stellantis and its outside stakeholders.
The Stellantis sourcing process includes supplier CSR performance as a key evaluation factor for selected suppliers who
are subjected to this review on risk-based approach. If the supplier performance is below the acceptable level a deviation
with an action plan to correct issues is required. Governance is in place with monthly GPSC leadership team meetings,
hosted by the Chief Global Purchasing and Supply Chain Officer to monitor supplier CSR performance during sourcing.
GPSC also focuses on raw material management and applies appropriate due diligence using a risk matrix for specific
materials. Approximately 25 materials are included in the evaluation, among them, tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold are
designated as conflict minerals and of critical importance in this process. Our Conflict Minerals program is managed by
regional and subsidiary conflict minerals team members . A global lead provides overall program management and For more information refer to 7.2.4
consolidation direction to ensure that the corporate obligation is fulfilled.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
This Conflict Minerals program supports:
■ our annual report on our conflict minerals due diligence processes, filled with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC), the purchasing commodity directors support escalation as needed to reinforce the importance of
this legal requirement. The document was filed with SEC in May 2022.
■ our Vigilance plan, in accordance with the French Act No. 2017-399 of 27 March 2017 on the duty of vigilance . For more information refer to the
Vigilance Plan
Stellantis has a long history working with the sheltered sector, where most workers are persons with disabilities. Suppliers
in the adapted and sheltered sector are meeting the same standards as the Company’s other suppliers based on criteria
such as quality, responsiveness and financial performance. Since developing this expertise, some sheltered suppliers have
marketed their know-how to other customers and business sectors such as rail and aeronautical.
Top supplier business review meetings are conducted annually with the objective to share and align strategies at the
highest level of both companies while identifying value creation initiatives for mutual benefit. During the discussions
emphasis is placed on social and environmental topics. These meetings can be regional or global depending on the
classification and relationship with the supplier and are hosted by purchasing executives.
7.1.5 POLICIES TO EXECUTE THE STRATEGY GRI 2-29 GRI 412-3 GRI 205-2
The Stellantis Code of Conduct has specific language pertaining to responsible purchasing and this message is reinforced GRI 414-1
in internal and external policies.
Customers, Suppliers and Business Partners
Conducting our business with sustainable business practices is a core value at Stellantis. We encourage the adoption and
sharing of sustainable practices among our business partners, suppliers and dealers through the Responsible Purchasing
Guidelines. We strive to select all our suppliers based on the quality and competitiveness of their products and services
and on their adherence to social, ethical and environmental principles while maintaining high standards of quality and
taking care of the communities where we do business.
Whistleblowing For more information refer to 5.1.7
Stellantis reinforces that employees, suppliers, dealers, consumers and other stakeholders can and should report any
concerns of alleged situations, events or actions that may have been inconsistent with the Stellantis Code of Conduct and
request advice about the application of the Code if needed.
We are firmly committed to act in a socially responsible manner and in line with sustainable practices within Stellantis and
with our supply base seeking to protect the health and safety of its workforce, prohibiting child labor and forced labor,
and complying with conflict minerals and environmental protection regulations.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
Responsible Purchasing and Support for the Respect of Human Rights in the Supply Chain
Stellantis’ Code of Conduct and policies reflect our commitment to human rights and integrity, in general alignment with
principles expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights
at Work and the United Nations Convention against Corruption to its suppliers.
Stellantis Responsible Purchasing Guidelines
Stellantis takes inspiration from the risk-based due diligence approach advocated by the OECD’ Guidelines for Multinational The Responsible Purchasing Guideline are
Enterprises. The Company is deploying its Responsible Purchasing Guidelines seeking to prevent child labor and available on the Stellantis website
forced labor in its supply chain, among other things, in line with the values expressed in International Labour Organization https://www.stellantis.com/content/dam/
stellantis-corporate/group/governance/
(“ILO”) principles. In the Responsible Purchasing Guidelines, the Company encourages its suppliers to be vigilant for CSR
corporate-regulations/global-responsible-
risks within their supply chain. The Stellantis Responsible Purchasing Guidelines require new and renewing suppliers purchasing-guidelines.pdf
to sign the guidelines and grant awards based on innovation, efficiency, economic performance, and CSR performance.
Stellantis has conducted evaluation activities to compare the benefits of the two leading Sustainability Assessment
Questionnaires (SAQ) provided by EcoVadis and Drive Sustainability. The findings support choosing EcoVadis as the main
data source for the Stellantis supply base .
Through these efforts, the Company seeks to secure its supply chains and also intends to boost supplier performance,
who are called on to introduce CSR policies within their own organization and with their supply and subcontracting chains.
Suppliers are required to agree and implement the Responsible Purchasing Guidelines that cover:
■ compliance with law
■ promotion of and compliance with internationally accepted human rights
■ freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining
■ elimination of any forms of forced or compulsory labor
■ effective fight against child labor and modern slavery
■ elimination of discrimination in terms of hiring and occupation
■ anti-corruption measures and the prevention of conflicts of interest
■ compliance with the legal minimum wage in national legislation or collective bargaining agreements
■ compliance with health and safety at work
■ implementation of an Environmental Management System such as ISO 14001 certification For more information refer to 2.7.1
■ banning the use of prohibited substances and materials
■ suppliers to obtain CSR commitment from their own suppliers consistent with those required by Stellantis
■ combating the use of minerals originating from areas of conflict
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
■ storage and use of personal data
■ implementation of an environmental policy for research on green or recycled materials, the reduction of CO 2 emissions
and the protection of biodiversity
■ implementation of an anti-deforestation policy For more information refer to 2.7.1
■ protection of animal welfare.
The Stellantis Responsible Purchasing Guidelines require new and renewing suppliers to sign the guidelines and grant
awards are based on:
Innovation
The Company involves its core and strategic suppliers in a disruptive innovation process, which is essential in order to
meet commitments on reducing CO emissions, improving air quality and finding more sustainable materials e.g., increased
2
recycled content for use in our products.
Efficiency
The CSR commitments that the Company asks its suppliers to make, enables them to reduce their own operational risks.
Suppliers are informed of best practices and regulatory changes and can benchmark themselves by comparing their CSR
performance against the industry average. Being aware of opportunities to build on their strengths and implement action
plans to work on weaknesses provides suppliers with a path to improvement. Stellantis monitors the progress of the action
plans required from suppliers and helps them find solutions to improve their product quality or optimize their processes.
Economic Performance
In view of the demanding supplier selection process, being a strategic or core supplier of Stellantis demonstrates a high-
level of economic and CSR performance. Through innovation partnerships with Stellantis, suppliers are developing a
competitive edge. This distinguishes them from their competitors when bidding for contracts in other markets. They
can create commercial opportunities with customers who, like Stellantis, regard CSR criteria as a key aspect of the
supplier selection and listing process. The Company’s suppliers are expected to communicate their own CSR commitment
and performance, EcoVadis score, to their customers, stakeholders and in all host regions. Similarly, being chosen to
support Stellantis on international projects, companies are boosting their prospects by increasing their presence and
competitiveness in new markets.
CSR Performance
The Company’s responsible purchasing approach drives attention to validated CSR performance from our suppliers. Our
policy is to work with suppliers in a partnership to improve CSR performance overall. These expectations are an integral
part of the supplier relationship and require a continuous focus to ensure we apply the needed resources to achieve top
ranking status. This approach has created results that have Stellantis supplier CSR performance that is clearly above the
EcoVadis benchmark.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
Supplier Business Award and Third Party CSR Assessment
Stellantis' policy for all sourcing activity to award business to new and existing suppliers requires that CSR performance is
systematically taken into consideration and globally reviewed. The goal is to ensure that responsible purchasing practices
are in place with our selected suppliers and at an acceptable performance level. We seek to only award business to
suppliers that share our values and can maintain required compliance and performance.
Industry Guidance
Supporting the development of the automotive industry is important to help make progress on common topics. Stellantis
contributed on the revision of the Automotive Guiding Principles with AIAG and Drive Sustainability. This document
seeks to create alignment between automakers to address issues relevant to the industry, and to speak with a unified
voice on the importance of a sustainable, ethical supply chain. These documents are updated on a regular basis and work
to move the message forward and align with the evolving expectations for the entire supply chain. For example, the
regulation in Germany and the upcoming regulation in EU are primary new additions to the content that already covers
various existing requirements. The automotive industry needs to take on the challenges that are necessary to build the
appropriate expectations for all levels of the complex and multi-tiered supply network. Stellantis is committed to being a
engaged partner in the development and promotion of these needed guidance materials.
7.1.6 ORGANIZATION AND RESOURCES
Responsible Sourcing is primarily a function of the Global Purchasing and Supply Chain (GPSC) department . For more information refer to 7.1.4
CSR activities are embedded into everyday life within the purchasing processes. Buyers are the primary point of contact
for suppliers and required to work towards ensuring that all contractual obligations and expectations, such as the
Responsible Purchasing Guideline, are upheld. They communicate with suppliers to raise awareness on requirements
and strive to ensure that supplier CSR performance, assessed by EcoVadis, is at the necessary level for the supplier to
be considered for sourcing opportunities. EcoVadis assessments are required to be renewed annually and suppliers are
subject to onsite audits from recognized assessment bodies based on risk assessments.
Supplier discussions are critical for alignment and driving results. Annual Supplier Business Review meetings are designed
to address many factors that include CSR topics. A designated program lead manages the overall process and official
documentation. The supplier discussion is supported by a member of top management, at a minimum the head of the
division, and the buyer.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
Experts are designated at various levels within the Business Units, including:
■ GPSC Champion is a senior executive who is responsible for considering CSR issues / challenges in the decision-making
process
■ CSR Correspondents are responsible for the reliable disclosure of qualitative and quantitative data within their scope
■ Regional Contributors are the local contacts that provide the specific regional elements as required.
We collaborate and participate with stakeholders to address common and specific issues. We focus on developing and
implementing solutions that drive efficiencies and build common industry tools. Often the actions needed from suppliers
are common within the automotive industry and can be leveraged. Some of the collaboration areas include:
■ internal departments such as engineering, logistics, industrial and program teams;
■ external stakeholders such as suppliers, OEMs and industry associations such as AIAG and VDA;
■ service providers such as CDP and EcoVadis . For more information on the
achievements refer to 7.1.7
Purchasing CSR Resources Matrix
RESPONSIBLE HUMAN RIGHTS CLIMATE CHANGE -
RESOURCES & TOOLS
SOURCING IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN CARBON ACCOUNTING
Supplier Business Review meetings
Drive Sustainability
NQC subgroup CSR assessment, CMRT, CRT
EcoVadis CSR assessment
RMI
Automotive Industry Associations
ACEA, AIAG, ANFIA, PFA, VDA
CDP
SGS Social Audits
battery suppliers - supply
RCS Global, VINE application
chain transparency
Conflict Minerals Program Legal obligation - country
Assent, NQC of origin
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
7.1.7 MAIN INITIATIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND RESULTS GRI 412
Stellantis has many initiatives that focus on responsible purchasing practices to support the Company’s development in
host territories. The activities are designed to support local sourcing development while providing measures that mitigate
risks from suppliers and subcontractors.
The Responsible Purchasing Guidelines address topics focused on; compliance with laws, regulations, social and ethical PRESS RELEASE
principles, environmental protection and sustainable procurement including training and support for small and local CEO Tavares Marks a New Era
suppliers. Stellantis requires suppliers to sign the Guidelines and ensure that they are aware of the expectations necessary for Stellantis in India
to maintain the status of a Stellantis supplier. Suppliers are critical links in the chain of responsibility . https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
press-releases/2022/may/ceo-tavares-
marks-a-new-era-for-stellantis-in-
Identifying CSR risks in the supply chain india#:~:text=CHENNAI%20%E2%80%93%20
During%20media%20interactions%2C%20
Stellantis uses risk analysis (mapping) to identify and prioritize actual or potential CSR incidents in the supply chain such Stellantis,Forward%202030%20global%20
strategic%20plan
as environmental, social and ethical topics. Due to the layers of the extended supply chain it can be difficult to gain
visibility upstream. Stellantis defined and has begun to implement a global process to continuously identify and monitor
risks from certain non-Tier 1 critical suppliers when relevant. Its findings are shared across all regions.
Where risk is identified, Stellantis has a prevention system to implement and monitor specific action plans with involved
suppliers to prevent or mitigate any impact to the supply chain.
Trend performance for suppliers is used to track improvement initiatives. When corrective action plans are launched the
expectation is that CSR performance will improve for the targeted area. In 2022, 12% of suppliers have improved their
CSR performance. The Company is transparent about the measures taken and the results obtained which are published
annually in our CSR report.
Risk mapping
We have opted to identify CSR risk by commodity for direct material purchases. The methodology used is built and
incorporates third-party assessment ratings, such as EcoVadis Rating Framework:
■ CSR risk profiles on internal commodities were developed;
■ CSR risk profiles by country based on the EcoVadis list that includes 200 categories for 175 countries were developed;
■ supplier CSR performance assessments were entered in the EcoVadis database (currently more than 100,000 suppliers
assessed, an increase of approximately 11,500 suppliers since last year);
■ collection of additional information from sources including unions, NGOs, media or data-collection specialists available
for review.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
Critical suppliers: are a Tier 1/Tier N supplier who could cause production stoppages at Stellantis plants or delay the sales Critical Tier 1 suppliers
launch of new vehicles. There are five categories of high-risk suppliers: for 2022
■ suppliers who are the only source of a product ~26%
■ suppliers for whom Stellantis purchases represent over 30% of their annual revenue
■ suppliers who are financially stressed
■ suppliers whose failure to adhere to the Stellantis’ CSR policy could damage the Company’s reputation. These suppliers
might cause a substantial negative impact on the environment, employment, human rights or society (particularly
through unethical conduct)
■ suppliers who are located in high risk geographical areas.
For 2022, about 26% of the Tier 1 suppliers by number are considered as critical. Monitoring, mitigation and action plans
are developed for these suppliers to implement a strategy customized for each case to protect Stellantis.
Supporting company transformation through strategic partnerships with our suppliers
As announced in the Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan, Stellantis entered into strategic partnerships with leading
companies intended to contribute to secure the supply of semiconductors, strategic raw materials and batteries for
electric vehicles and support innovation, efficiency and shared know-how with Stellantis experts.
After having signed the memorandum of understanding with Foxconn in 2021 with the intent to secure the supply of
PRESS RELEASE
purpose-built semi conductors, further collaborations were started in 2022.
Stellantis Expands Relationship with
Stellantis and Controlled Thermal Resources Ltd. signed a binding offtake agreement with the objective to supply
Vulcan Energy Becoming Shareholder in
battery grade lithium hydroxide for use in Stellantis’ North American electrified vehicle production. Decarbonized Lithium Company
https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
Stellantis made an equity investment in Vulcan Energy Resources Ltd. worth €50 million, as extension of the original
press-releases/2022/june/stellantis-expands-
binding offtake agreement of 10 years. The equity investment will go towards Vulcan’s planned production expansion relationship-with-vulcan-energy-becoming-
shareholder-in-decarbonized-lithium-company
drilling in its producing Upper Rhine Valley Brine Field (URVBF). Vulcan is already producing geothermal energy from its
URVBF and plans to produce lithium hydroxide with zero fossil fuels and net zero carbon footprint as part of the Zero PRESS RELEASE
Carbon Lithium™ Project. Stellantis and LG Energy Solution to Invest
Over $5 Billion CAD in Joint Venture for
In 2022, Stellantis finalized a joint venture with Samsung SDI for the production of battery cells and modules for North
First Large Scale Lithium-Ion Battery
America, targeted to begin production in Kokomo, Indiana (U.S.) in 2025 with initial annual production capacity of Production Plant in Canada
23 GWh. In 2022, Stellantis and LG Energy Solution also announced a plan to invest $5 billion CAD in a joint venture for https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
Canada’s first large scale lithium-ion battery production plant, which will be built in Windsor (Canada) . The agreement press-releases/2022/march/stellantis-and-
lg-energy-solution-to-invest-over-5-billion-
between Stellantis and LG Energy Solution is subject to customary closing conditions. cad-in-joint-venture-for-first-large-scale-lithium-
Ion-battery-production-plant-in-canada
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
Focus on raw material risks: a material risk mapping is regularly reviewed and updated in terms of the criticality of materials
with specific characteristics, importance for competitiveness, little or no current alternative, potential scarcity due to limited
global production or fragile supply chains and questionable CSR conditions e.g., conflict minerals, lithium, cobalt and mica.
This mapping is designed to enable us to manage and secure our supply over a long-term period and focus our research and
development work on alternative materials. Our policy to seek out new, innovative materials combines with our quest to
increase the proportion of renewable and environment-neutral materials in our vehicles. This analysis supports our ability to
focus on critical suppliers, such as those included in our battery supply chain for development and management.
Focus on conflict minerals: earnings from mining gold, tin, tantalum and tungsten might be used to finance armed
conflict in the Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries. In accordance with required U.S. and EU regulations,
Stellantis’ policy requires transparency from its suppliers about the origin of any raw materials and minerals they use . For more information refer to 7.2.7
Environmental damage: this is damage caused to water, air and soil either as a result of natural disasters or industrial
accidents, or due to overexploitation of natural resources. The focus on industrial supplier risks uses a mechanism that
enables the buyer to quickly identify the Company’s exposure to the risks linked to each supplier production plant, using
a matrix which takes into account criteria such as: geographical location (risk of natural disaster), the Company’s share
in the plant’s production, how specific the technology used by the supplier is, how many of the Company’s vehicles
are affected by production at this plant, etc. This assessment method is used systematically to prepare technical and
industrial procurement policies for each product group and each call for tenders. This result is systematically taken into
consideration in the supplier selection process globally.
7.1.7.1 Actions to mitigate risks from subcontractors or suppliers
Assessments of the supply chain by recognized assessment bodies
To support the supplier assessment process on CSR criteria and make it more robust, Stellantis has embarked on an
assessment of its Tier 1 supply base using criteria related to the environment, workforce, ethics and subcontracting chain.
It has outsourced this assessment to an independent external company, EcoVadis. The first step was to identify supplier
risks more precisely. Stellantis informed its suppliers that this evaluation was a prerequisite for the placement of future
business, and to remain on the supplier panel. Stellantis requires its existing suppliers to be reassessed each year to
continuously improve their CSR performance. A corrective action plan is automatically required for suppliers that do not
receive a score that meets the standards set by Stellantis.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
Audits of suppliers at risk IATF 16949 standard
meets the growing In addition to the CSR assessment, on-site audits are performed. These audits are conducted for suppliers identified
expectations of markets and
as risky according to three CSR criteria: countries (non-signatory country or country with questionable governance),
governments in relation to
products (inherently risky, such as promotional items) or processes (manufacturing processes involving hazardous
ethical business practices
substances). These social and environmental audits are also managed by an independent external service provider, SGS.
An audit checklist is used covering the following topics:
■ CSR policy
■ human rights
■ working conditions
■ workplace health and safety
■ environment
■ supplier CSR management system.
These audits provide a snapshot of how the supplier is performing in terms of the Company’s reference guide and the
local statutes and regulations. The specifications stipulate that local auditors who speak the language of the audited site
and who have a thorough knowledge of the applicable local laws, regulations and practices applicable to the site must
carry out the audit. The external auditor creates an audit report for each audit. The report describes noncompliances and
grades them according to four classifications; critical, core, minor and observations only, each requiring corrective action
plans. If no satisfactory solution can be found to a critical or core noncompliance, a disengagement plan may be put in
place after consultation with internal individuals affected by the decision. If necessary, an audit may be conducted to
verify that action plans were implemented.
Suppliers and their production plants are expected to be IATF 16949-certified. The IATF standard meets the growing
expectations of markets and governments in relation to ethical business practices. It also incorporates changes and
complexities specific to the automotive sector, such as requirements for onboard software, and strengthening product
traceability in accordance with regulatory changes. Stellantis has added additional specific requirements for this
certification. These additions include adherence to the Responsible Purchasing Guidelines and they contain specific CSR
advice and actions required by suppliers. IATF conducts audits to ensure compliance with these specific requirements.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
Steps taken to prevent risks: governance of the supplier relationship
Supplier briefings are held each month to provide suppliers with CSR updates, communicate the Company’s CSR
expectations and inform them of legal and regulatory developments in CSR matters. Risk prevention takes place in
the day-to-day relationship between buyers and suppliers. Stellantis pays particular attention to supplier training and
provides them with tools that enable them to rapidly identify and react to risk situations. Suppliers have access to
e-learning on CSR principles to evaluate and improve their CSR performance and how to build robust internal processes
supporting CSR.
On account of Stellantis’ membership in the CCFA and PFA, the Automotive Sector Mediation Centre serves an independent
entity to provide support to automotive companies for amicable dispute resolution (in disputes relating to the business
relationship between customer and supplier). There were no mediated cases between Stellantis and a supplier in 2022
Training for buyers and suppliers
The supplier training curriculum covers subjects related to purchasing, quality, supply chain management, manufacturing, Training Professionals
events attending
finance and engineering. There are dedicated classes on sustainability-related topics such as responsible working
conditions, environmental impacts, ethics and conflict minerals. The Company’s ambition is to train 90% of the suppliers 3 ~700
in CSR risks and the Stellantis requirements by 2025.
Buyer training includes modules for CSR topics, Conflict Minerals and expectations during the sourcing process. Specific
commodities may have additional requirements, such as EV batteries, where additional regulation and policies are in place.
In 2022, 3 training events (versus 4 in 2021) with almost 700 purchasing professionals attending (versus 220 in 2021),
where held.
7.1.7.2 Monitoring signs of weakness to eliminate the causes of risk
Whistleblowing channel For more information refer to 5.1.7
Stellantis reinforces that employees, suppliers, dealers, consumers and other stakeholders can and shall report any
concerns of alleged situations, events, or actions that may have been inconsistent with the Stellantis Code of Conduct
and request advice about the application of the Code.
Stakeholder feedback
Stellantis receives input from NGOs and actively collaborates with them on a partnership level. For example, we collaborate
with selected NGOs on mica and leather programs. Additionally, a partnership with RCS Global, a responsible sourcing
advisory and audit firm was established. In early 2020, former Groupe PSA formed a partnership with the RCS Global for
a cobalt and lithium supply chain auditing program. Stellantis has expanded the scope to include additional suppliers and
raw materials since 2021 . The Company also reviews media and news reports on topics related to NGO findings on raw For more information refer to 7.2.7
materials of all kind.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
Measures taken if suppliers are found to be noncompliant with CSR requirements
Stellantis has introduced a comprehensive toolkit to measure the social and environmental performance of its suppliers
and to identify any shortcomings or risks. The suppliers questioned or audited systematically receive an analysis of their
performance. For suppliers who do not achieve the required standard, a corrective action plan is put in place. Suppliers
that do not improve and collaborate to do so with Stellantis to resolve the issues identified might ultimately be excluded
from Stellantis’ supplier panel.
7.1.7.3 Supplier Risk and Engagement Achievements GRI 414-1 GRI 414-2
Already in its short history, Stellantis has had many positive results from the actions taken with our suppliers. Our list of
achievements provides the details related to the performance of our efforts.
87% ■ Stellantis has maintained high CSR compliance approval rates two years in a row (92% in 2022, 93% in 2021)
■ more than 2,973 supplier groups were assessed by EcoVadis, an increase of >400 compared to 2021. This accounts for
of direct purchase values
more than 87% of the value of direct purchases, versus. 83% in the past year.
assessed by Ecovadis
● 73% Overall Supplier Sustainability score which is classified as Good (ratings higher than 45 Points), up by 2% versus 2021
● 468 suppliers with corrective action plans in 2022 which is 16% of the total assessed suppliers (down from 18% in 2021)
■ 105 external social and environmental on-site audits were conducted, this marks an increase of 40% over 2021 with
75 conducted audits. Whenever a supplier is identified as noncompliant with the requirements of the Responsible
Purchasing Guidelines, the Company requires the supplier to launch corrective action plans
● 30 (40 in 2021) audits were conducted by RCS Global for the battery supply chain from Tier 1 to mine sites, whereof
28 suppliers received their individual corrective action plan
● 75 (35 in 2021) SGS social and environmental audits for Tier 1 supplier were performed, whereof 71 suppliers are
working on corrective action plans
■ with the major introduction of battery and hybrid electric vehicles the purchase contract has specific additional
expectations that apply to battery suppliers in terms of due diligence and transparency to comply with the latest
requirements regarding materials such as cobalt, lithium, graphite, and nickel
■ Stellantis supplier production plants are IATF 16949 and at a minimum ISO 9001 certified
● 83% of all suppliers are certified, of which:
■ 90% in South/Latin America
■ 86% in North America, up by 4% in 2022
■ 79% in Europe, 5% more than 2021
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
■ more than 85% of suppliers trained on Stellantis CSR risks and requirements up by 5% versus 2021 Suppliers trained on Stellantis
CSR risk and requirements
■ 11 of our vehicle plants in Europe are working with the sheltered sector
>85%
■ almost 700 (versus 220 in 2021) employees were trained in three events (versus four in 2021) worldwide on the Stellantis
CSR approach and ways to perform CSR actions.
Stellantis supplier performance shows that for the suppliers with a score >45, shown in green, are performing better than
the EcoVadis benchmark. The benchmark is the average score of all suppliers aggregated in the EcoVadis tool.
Comparison between Ecovadis scores of Stellantis suppliers vs scores
of all Ecovadis rated companies
32%
30%
26% 27% 27%
26% Stellantis Score
23%
25% 2022
2021
19%
21% 18%
17% 16%
15%
13% Ecovadis Benchmark
2022
8% 8% 2021
6% 4%
0%
1% 1%
00-14 15-24 25-34 35-44 45-54 55-64 65-100
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
Additional supplier engagement achievements
Stellantis provides World Class Management (WCM) methodology and tools to our suppliers, both new and existing
ones. WCM support included plant shop floor assessments for new launch suppliers and focused improvement activities
for those supporting current production, in both technical and operational assistance to its suppliers, like Monozukuri.
To maximize the effectiveness of the program, suppliers and commodities are prioritized based on their impact on
Stellantis plants, purchasing strategy and the supplier's current performance. Particular emphasis is placed on supplier
plants involved in upcoming product launches. Dedicated WCM knowledge experts from Stellantis provide guidance and
mentoring to improve supplier’s key performance indicators and activities.
Supplier programs that focus on fostering innovation to improve products, processes and content are essential for Stellantis.
We may use different tools but it is the dedication of our employees that work with suppliers for value optimization and
encourage a proactive approach to collaborate on cost saving ideas and technical solutions. For 2023 we plan to strengthen
the Monozukuri process by a stronger involvement of our specialists to support our suppliers on their efficiency.
Our suppliers participated in more than 10 Technology Day events, seven of which were at Stellantis facilities in Europe
and North America and more online or at supplier facilities. These events encourage collaboration with Stellantis
personnel and suppliers on innovative solutions for features, efficiencies and quality, and allow suppliers to share their
latest technological developments and concepts for the future.
A partnership that promotes sustainable performance: Supplier Awards PRESS RELEASE
Stellantis Recognizes 12 Suppliers
The Supplier Awards are an opportunity to reaffirm the strategic importance of the supplier relationship as a fundamental
for Quality, Commitment and
driver in achieving the Company’s strategic plan for profitable growth and developing differentiating technological
Operational Excellence
innovations in response to the challenges of global competitiveness. The Global Purchasing and Supply Chain Department https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/
rewarded the best suppliers in several categories. One of the categories is CSR Performance. The list of award-winning press-releases/2022/june/stellantis-recognizes-
12-suppliers-for-quality-commitment-and-
suppliers is validated by a committee to ensure that the suppliers are compliant with the assessment criteria in other operational-excellence#:~:text=Stellantis%20
categories. For example, a supplier cannot be given an award in the value-creation category unless it has reached the Recognizes%2012%20Suppliers%20for%20
Quality%2C%20Commitment%20and%20
required CSR level. In 2022, 12 suppliers received awards for their commitment and quality of their response to the Operational%20Excellence,-Second%20
annual%20Stellantis&text=AMSTERDAM%20
Company’s expectations .
%E2%80%93%20Stellantis%20today%20
honored%2012,and%20operational%20
excellence%20in%202021
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
7.1.8 DETAILED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS GRI 204-1 GRI 407-1 GRI 408-1
GRI 409-1 GRI 414-2
7.1.8.1 Transparent communication on the results of due diligence GRI 2-15 GRI 308-2
7.1.8.1.1 CSR Performance of the Company’s suppliers assessed by the external service provider EcoVadis
Performance category Compliant Minor non-compliance Core non-compliance
2022 73% 26% 1%
Global Overall CSR score
2021 71% 27% 2%
2022 73% 25% 2%
Environment
2021 71% 27% 2%
2022 77% 22% 1%
Labor & Human Rights
2021 75% 24% 1%
2022 63% 32% 5%
Ethics
2021 60% 34% 6%
2022 44% 45% 11%
Sustainable Procurement
2021 40% 49% 11%
7.1.8.1.2 EcoVadis assessment Key Performance Indicators
Suppliers
2022 75%
Policy on corruption
2021 72%
2022 52% Audit or assessment of suppliers on
CSR issues
2021 50%
2022 48%
Active whistleblowing procedure in
place 2021 51%
2022 48%
Whistleblowing procedure on ethics
2021 46%
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
7.1.8.1.3 Summary of 2022 audit onsite for Critical Supplier
Minor Core Critical
CSR Category Sub-topics Observations non-compliance non-compliance non-compliance Total
Sustainability policy Sustainability policy 6 21 0 0 27
Uphold freedom of association and the effective
4 27 17 0
recognition of the right to collective bargaining
Elimination of any forms of forced or compulsory labor 0 3 6 4
Zero-tolerance of child labor 0 2 5 0
Human rights 147
Elimination of discrimination in terms of employment and
1 5 8 0
occupation
Anti-corruption measures and the prevention of conflicts
0 6 1 0
of interest
Labor organization and disciplinary practice 2 8 47 1
Remuneration 4 18 38 19
Working conditions 227
Working hours 3 32 98 15
Organization 7 50 17 3
Buildings 2 21 16 0
Fire Prevention 12 59 91 2
Workplace health and safety Machines/electrics 7 47 20 0 450
Hazardous substances 2 25 46 0
Canteen 2 14 5 1
Dormitories 0 0 1 0
General organization 0 8 8 0
Waste 0 1 9 0
Waste water 0 3 1 0
Environment 54
Air Emissions 3 11 4 0
Soil 0 3 0 0
Water and energy consumption 0 3 0 0
Management System Supply chain 4 14 2 0 20
Total 59 381 440 45 925
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
7.1.8.2 Supplier Spend Analysis GRI 204
7.1.8.2.1 Distribution of Stellantis Direct Material spend
48.0%
ENLARGED
EUROPE 43.2%
43.1%
NORTH
AMERICA 50.1%
7.7%
SOUTH
AMERICA 5.6%
1.2%
MIDDLE EAST
& AFRICA 0.9%
2022
CHINA AND 0.1%
INDIA & ASIA 2021
0.2%
PACIFIC
7.1.8.2.2 Value of Direct Material Purchases by Supplier Origin
52.3% NORTH AMERICA
32.7% ENLARGED EUROPE
8.8% CHINA AND INDIA & ASIA PACIFIC
4.8% MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA
1.4% SOUTH AMERICA
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
40%
20%
0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000
tneps
fo
%
7.1.8.2.3 Top APV Suppliers - 2022 Distribution
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
30%
10%
Number of Top suppliers
Spent Category in Mill EUR Total Spent in Mill EUR
≤ 5 1.127
> 5 & ≤ 10 1.242
> 10 & ≤ 25 3.486
> 25 & ≤ 50 4.921
> 50 & ≤ 100 7.011
> 100 & ≤ 250 12.5
> 250 68.022
Total 98.308
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
7.2 Human rights in the supply chain
7.2.1 CONTEXT AND STELLANTIS POSITION
GRI 2-29
CSR issue/challenge #21: Human rights in the supply chain 21 Human rights in the supply chain
Expectations from stakeholders are growing in terms of their interest to be informed about the origin of products and
related production conditions for what they buy. It is crucial that we work to provide transparency throughout the supply
chain, regardless of the difficulty to implement.
Managing social, societal and ethical impacts in the supply chain is a core priority for Stellantis, given the extensive
international expansion in emerging countries of our supply base. We intend to align with common, globally embraced
environmental and social principles by working together to improve our supply base sustainability development.
Enhancing transparency regarding raw material origin and human rights within our complex global supplier network is a
high priority. We respect the responsibility we have for due diligence and the opportunity to be socially respectful within
the extended enterprise. Stellantis focuses on improving supplier social performance and complying with social, societal
and ethical standards in our supply chain.
Company’s public position
In its Code of Conduct, its Human Rights Policy, in the Responsible Purchasing Guidelines, and as a signatory to the United
Nation’s Global Compact, the Company expresses its commitment on human rights, and principles as expressed in various
recognized foundational documents, such as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the United Nation’s
Declaration of Human Rights, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, the United Nations Convention
against Corruption, and other documents.
In this spirit, we strive to implement preventive measures to uphold human rights and ethical principles, meet social and
ethical standards inspired by the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) rules for human rights such for the abolition of
child and forced labor, the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and customer expectations
considering the risks specific for the automotive supply chain. We also endeavor to adhere to the standards, norms and
regulations defined by supranational bodies such as, ISO 26000, ISO 20400, ISO 14021, UK REACH. Our processes and
controls intend to meet the legislative requirements of France’s Duty of Vigilance, EU Conflict Minerals regulation, the U.S.
Dodd Frank Act and the Modern Slavery Act and to extend these principles to the extended supply network including the
sub-tier suppliers..
Stellantis opposes forced and child labor throughout the entire supply chain, including raw materials suppliers. We require
that our direct suppliers to apply these standards and cascade them throughout their supply chain.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
7.2.2 FORWARD-LOOKING VISION AND TARGETS
Commitment scoreboard
CSR ISSUE/ VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT RESULTS
CHALLENGE
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term 2022 2021
(End of Strategic Plan)
21 Human rights in the Require, monitor and Average human rights 2025: Increase of 2030: Increase of 2050: in top level 4.4% Increase in 2.7% increase in
supply chain control the total respect scores of Stellantis +2.5% vs score as of +5% vs score as of performance Performance since performance during
Owner: Chief for human rights along Tier 1 suppliers assessed 01/01/21 01/01/21 category 01/01/21 2021
Purchasing & Supply the entire global supply by independent third party
Chain Officer chain process, involving
all actors to ensure
transparency and full
alignment with Human
Rights principles
7.2.3 IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES GRI 2-28 GRI 407-1 GRI 408-1
GRI 409-1
Human Rights and Forced Labor commitments
Stellantis is focused on human rights and the encouragement of appropriate attention from our supply network. An
important aspect we address is the prohibition of child or forced labor within the extended supply chain. This is a difficult
task beyond our Tier 1 suppliers. We are creating partnerships with providers that will support actions to monitor the
many layers within the complex extended supply network.
Participation on automotive industry work groups is part of our process to address the concerns of forced labor by
bringing together expertise from cross functional teams. Customs and Sustainability teams from OEMs and suppliers are
working together to help develop ideas and strategies . For more information refer to 7.1.6
Stellantis pays specific attention to the Human Rights section of the overall Responsible Sourcing topic.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
RISK #1
RISK #1 HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS IN THE EXTENDED SUPPLY NETWORK
Human Rights violations in the
Risk Due to the extended supply chain structure it can be complex to work towards ensuring the avoidance of human
Description rights violations. Supply chain management based on continuous risk assessment with the objective of reducing extended supply network
exposure to risk and improving performance is a critical element for Stellantis’ supply chain management programs.
It is of high importance to work with suppliers that share the same objectives to support the elimination of human
rights violations. We expect our suppliers to share the principles we live by and to cascade these principles throughout
the extended supply network.
Potential Impact
▪ Violation of legislation in case of an incident (e.g Duty of Vigilance Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act) in the global
supply chain
▪ Supply disruption due to strikes/social conflicts
▪ Remediation costs to resolve issues found at any level of the extended supply chain;
▪ Compensation to victims in the event of incidents
▪ Loss of productivity and quality
▪ Ethical breaches on supplier quality risks
▪ Reputation risk - crisis of confidence in the event of a proven supplier failure
▪ Declining Brand reputation that might impact sales
▪ Additional measures may be required to secure supply (security stock/dual sourcing)
▪ Supplier removal from panel or bid
Mitigation ▪ Identify risk by commodity, country and industry for direct and develop plans for indirect material purchases
Strategy • Based on EcoVadis Rating Framework and/or other risk intelligence sources
▪ Commitment to the Global Compact and building on its Great Place to Work Framework Agreement, which extends
to suppliers and partners
▪ Engagement with several multi-stakeholder organizations, both within and outside the automotive industry
▪ Onsite audit activities
• RCS Global - Battery suppliers
• SGS - Social audits
▪ Corrective action plans
Additional ▪ Anticipating future regulations and the opportunity to improve the industry and our suppliers. For example:
Opportunities • New German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act as of 2023
• New EU CSR Directives as of 2024
▪ Supplier development through mentoring and training
▪ Access to regulated markets on human rights aspects
▪ Enhance corporate image among civil society
▪ Improvements in Operational Management
• Productivity
• Better working conditions
• Reduced work-related accidents
• Reduced absenteeism and turnover
▪ Reinforcing the attractiveness of suppliers, particularly in emerging countries and improving skills within the supply chain
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
REGULATED MATERIALS IN THE EXTENDED SUPPLY CHAIN - CONFLICT MINERALS RISK #2
RISK #2
COMPLIANCE (3TG)
Regulated materials in the
Risk The extraction of raw materials for use in the manufacturing of goods and services for the automotive industry may extended supply chain -
Description lead to undesirable actions in some geographical locations. Funding armed conflict is a concern that requires due
Conflict Minerals compliance
diligence to provide transparency regarding the origin of specific minerals, such as tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold.
Through supplier assurance measures we seek to help put an end to the exploitation and abuse of local communities, (3TG)
including mine workers, while supporting local development.
Potential Impact
▪ Finance of armed conflict
▪ Incidents of child, forced or compulsory labor in the sub-tier supply chain
▪ Difficulty to secure supply of critical minerals
▪ Reputation concerns
• Negative publicity
• Loss of investor confidence
• Negative brand association for future customers
Mitigation ▪ Ethical and conscientious procurement practices during the mineral extraction, trade and processing stages
Strategy ▪ Conduct due diligence activities to provide supply chain transparency and smelter validation
▪ Training to provide suppliers with Stellantis’ expectations and tools and resources to supplier development
▪ Supplier Business Review meetings to reinforce the alignment of objectives and legal obligations to continue the
ongoing relationship with Stellantis
▪ Membership with recognized partners such as RMI which serves as the voice of industry to support responsible
mineral sourcing and convenes stakeholders to continually shape dialogue and practices.
Additional ▪ Use of 3TGs from verified ‘conflict free’ sources to support green and local sourcing initiatives
Opportunities ▪ Redesign goods and services to eliminate the used of 3TGs
▪ Vertical integration for secured mineral supply
▪ Access to regulated markets on human rights aspects
▪ Automate the process
▪ Enhance corporate image among civil society
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
NON-REGULATED MATERIALS IN THE EXTENDED SUPPLY CHAIN - COBALT, MICA, BAUXITE/ RISK #3
RISK #3
ALUMINUM, NICKEL, LITHIUM, ETC
Non-regulated materials in the
Risk There are many materials that can become a focus item based on potential human rights violations. These types of extended supply chain - Cobalt,
Description raw materials used in the manufacturing of goods and services for the automotive industry may lead to detrimental
Mica, Bauxite/Aluminum, Nickel,
behaviors in the extended supply chain. Often there are preliminary stages prior to official legislative measures that
should alert users to concerning activity. It is essential to stay aware and engaged with multiple stakeholders to Lithium, etc
learn and to build resources. We seek to help put an end to the exploitation and abuse of local communities while
supporting local development.
Potential Impact
▪ Incidents of child, forced or compulsory labor in the sub-tier supply chain
▪ Difficulty to secure supply of critical minerals
▪ Reputation concerns
• Negative publicity
• Loss of investor confidence
• Negative brand association for future customers
Mitigation ▪ Ethical and conscientious procurement practices during the mineral extraction, trade and processing stages
Strategy ▪ Conduct due diligence activities to provide supply chain transparency and smelter validation
▪ Training to provide suppliers with Stellantis’ expectations and tools and resources to supplier supplier development
▪ Supplier Business Review meetings to reinforce the alignment of objectives and legal obligations to continue the
ongoing relationship with Stellantis
▪ Ongoing partnership with RCS Global, a recognized organization that serves to support responsible mineral sourcing
and works to deploy best practices.
Additional ▪ Redesign goods and services to eliminate the use of the subject material
Opportunities ▪ Use of materials, such as cobalt, from verified ‘conflict free’ sources to support green and local sourcing initiatives
▪ Vertical integration for secured mineral supply
▪ Access to regulated markets on human rights aspects
▪ Encourage industry discussion and focus on appropriate measures prior to legislation
▪ Enhance corporate image among civil society
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
IDENTIFICATION AND MITIGATION APPROACH OF HUMAN RIGHTS
RELATED RISKS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN
lanoitroporp
serusaeM
sksir
fo
edutingam
eht
ot
Suppliers of Stellantis
sgniniart
lanretxe
&
lanretnI
Case-dependent
action plans
Onsite audits performed by SGS
(based on Stellantis questionnaire)
RCS Global Program including onsite audits
(based on RCS & OECD Guidelines)*
Additional clauses added to contracts with suppliers*
RMI1 & SEC2 conformant CMRT3 Program*
1st tier suppliers CSR performance rated by Ecovadis
Signature of the Stellantis Responsible Purchasing Guidelines
* Specific actions for human rights violations in the extended supply chain related to:
Non-regulated materials, Cobalt, Mica, Bauxite/ Aluminum, Nickel, Lithium, etc.
Regulated materials, Conflict Minerals compliance 3TG
1 Responsible Minerals Initiative
2 U.S Securities and Exchange Commission
3 Conflict Minerals Reporting Template, hosted by the RMI
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
IMPACT MEASUREMENT OF THE ELECTRIFICATION STRATEGY For more information refer to 7.1.3
Electrification relies on the raw materials necessary to produce battery components. The Stellantis Responsible
Purchasing Guideline requires battery suppliers to disclose their raw material suppliers. These materials can pose
human rights risks in the supply chain particularly cobalt in countries like the Democratic Republic of Congo.
More than 2,974 supplier groups are covered by a CSR assessment performed by an external third-party including
human rights criteria. Part of the expectation is that the management of the extended supply chain has appropriate
measures to identify, mitigate and monitor potential human rights issues. Stellantis conducts an annual mapping for
the source of essential materials for electric vehicle battery manufacturing. In 2021, we partnered with RCS Global to
apply due diligence with our critical suppliers regarding cobalt and lithium supply chains by conducting 78 external
on-site audits since then.
NGOs identified that another material that the energy transition relies on, i.e., aluminum, also poses human rights
issues. Drive Sustainability, a Stellantis partner, launched a project to identify human rights risks in the supply chains
of 10 raw materials, including aluminum. In July 2021, Human Rights Watch issued a report on human rights violations
risks in the aluminum supply chain, naming aluminum the “blind spot” of car companies due diligence policies.
Therefore, the description of the impact of electrification on human rights in the supply chain should not only refer to
materials such as cobalt and lithium, but also to aluminum.
These activities improve our ability to address human rights risks in its supply chain where they may exist.
7.2.4 GOVERNANCE AND DECISION BODIES TO LEAD ACTIONS
Stellantis uses governance mechanisms to manage and monitor human rights in supply chain at various levels, in addition For more information about the role of
to those already described in the section Responsible Purchasing Practices . the Global Purchasing and Supply Chain
department (GPSC) refer to 7.1.4
Our Conflict Minerals program is managed by regional and subsidiary conflict minerals team members. A global lead
provides overall program management and consolidation direction to ensure that corporate obligations are fulfilled. For more information refer to the
Vigilance Plan
The Stellantis conflict mineral supplier submission status is tracked and communicated by the purchasing organization
to ensure that any needed escalation efforts are deployed quickly. The purchasing commodity directors are involved in
escalation activities with the supply base, as needed, to reinforce the importance of providing due diligence evidence
to support Stellantis’ legal requirements. A report must be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) annually to show the efforts taken to determine the mine or location of origin. Suppliers who are required to
submit the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template must provide it within the appropriate time period or be considered as
non-compliant. If a supplier is found to be non-compliant they may be recommended for removal from the sourcing panel.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
Supplier on-site audit program
There are protocols in place to manage audit activities. We hold meetings with the service providers to ensure
the programs are progressing and any issues or concerns are addressed. If a critical non-compliance is found the
supplier is flagged for additional escalation activities and appropriate purchasing management members are notified.
At the close of the audit a formal debrief is conducted to share the findings with the supplier. Depending on the
findings, after the debrief individual follow up is made to ensure that corrective action plans are implemented, if
required a follow-up audit is performed to have the necessary evidences of implementation. Internally we review the
audit activities and results with top purchasing management and when appropriate suppliers with exemplary results
are recognized by the purchasing team.
Diversity and Inclusion focus programs
We work to include diversity and inclusion considerations as an everyday practice in our dealings with employees,
dealers, suppliers and customers. Training, mentoring, scholarship support, sponsorship and membership with Board and
committee participation are some of the ways we support various diversity organizations. Diversity spend targets are
created for suppliers based on diversity categories. Performance is captured as a strategic indicator on the Global External
Balanced Scorecard, which can be used in sourcing decisions.
To receive credit towards their diversity goals, a supplier is required to work with certified diversity Tier 2 suppliers.
The diversity spend status of each supplier is monitored and reviewed with them. The High Focus program works with
the suppliers that have a greater potential for diverse spending and equips them with tools and support to achieve their
diversity targets.
Sheltered and adapted sector
Commitment for the social and occupational inclusion of people with disabilities is an important segment to Stellantis.
We have dedicated resources that support the national organizations, with a focus in France and Spain. Specific budgets
and processes are set and managed to ensure attention on this segment.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
7.2.5 POLICIES TO EXECUTE THE STRATEGY
Stellantis combined its Conflict Minerals policy and the Responsible Purchasing Charter into the Responsible Purchasing
Guideline . For more information refer to 7.1.5
STELLANTIS’ FOCUS AREAS FOR HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE EXTENDED SUPPLY CHAIN
Implement Support and
due diligence respect the
measures with the protection of
subcontracting internationally-
Establish a
chain proclaimed human
responsible rights Uphold freedom of
purchasing policy association and the
respecting all RPG effective recognition
principles of the right to
collective bargaining
Raise sub-tier g
supplier CSR din
awareness uil
b Sustainable
ty Procurement Eliminate all
ci deployment of all forms of forced
Small/local
Capa thR roP uG
g h
te il eae rlm
sl
se un pts
p ly
F
o c u
labor
l
aa bn od
r
child
supplier support s
via facilitation Social
Principles
of technological Responsible Eliminate
upgrades and Purchasing discrimination
acquisition of Training & Support in respect to
long-term assets of small and local Guidelines (RPG) employment and
suppliers - Human Rights occupation
Focus
Development
of skills
Favorable working
conditions in relation
C Laws to remuneration,
o working hours and
R &e t ue sn et i oo fn m pli
a Ethical
ar ne dsp se ac ft
e
f tyo r
a
h
t
e wa olt rh
k
personal data nc e Principles
Fair trade Prohibited
practices substances &
materials
Export Fight against
controls, the use of
Animal
sanction laws conflict minerals
Welfare
and regulation
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
IATF Certification
Stellantis suppliers are required to complete our customer specific requirements which includes adherence to our
Responsible Purchasing Guidelines, Corporate Social Responsibility recommendations and required actions. The certifying
bodies for IATF conduct audits regarding these specific requirements. The IATF 16949 certification is granted for three
years with an annual monitoring audit. Certification is suspended and additional audits are conducted if there are core
compliance failures so that corrective actions can be implemented.
Onsite Auditing
Onsite audit activities are performed by certified auditors from distinguished external assessment bodies . Currently For more information refer to 7.1.7
we have partnered with SGS for these audit activities. Guidance is provided via program documentation that includes
the supplier kick-off notification, audit checklist and closure debrief. Any non-compliance requires an improvement plan.
During the closing meeting the supplier receives the auditor findings and is required to sign-off on any improvement
plans. These plans are monitored to ensure that the identified concerns are resolved. Additional follow-up visits may be
required to confirm evidence onsite.
Whistleblowing For more information refer to 5.1.7
Stellantis reinforces that employees, suppliers, dealers, consumers and other stakeholders can and should report any
concerns of alleged situations, events or actions that may be inconsistent with the Stellantis Code of Conduct. They can
also request advice about the application of the Code of Conduct.
We are committed to act in a socially responsible manner that is in line with sustainable practices within Stellantis and at
each level of the supply base including ensuring the health and safety of the workforce, prohibiting child and forced labor,
complying with conflict minerals and adhering to environmental protection regulations.
7.2.6 ORGANIZATION AND RESOURCES
For detailed information on which resources are available in Stellantis to ensure Responsible Purchasing . For the overview refer to 7.1.6
Monitoring potential human rights violations within the Stellantis supply chain requires internal and external resources.
The most prominent areas of concern regarding human rights can be many layers deep within the complex automotive
supply network. Even though Stellantis may not have a direct contractual relationship with these entities, we recognize
our responsibility to provide appropriate due diligence for materials that are critical and may be provided from conflict
affected and high risk areas. There are designated individuals that perform multiple internal activities such as extracting
critical data from internal systems, developing and managing the needed campaigns, reporting the status to top
management and providing program management oversight for our service providers.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
Conflict Minerals Program Management
The conflict minerals program management team is responsible for generating the annual in-scope supplier list that
identifies which suppliers are required to provide the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT). The list of parts for
products containing tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold is provided from regional technical contacts upon request. The
International Material Data System (IMDS) is a global data repository that contains information on materials used by the
automotive industry and this, or an equivalent system, is used to provide the part content information.
Once the Conflict Minerals data collection process begins, the designated members are required to track supplier
submissions and provide updates so that progress reports can be presented to the purchasing management team. If
a supplier is unresponsive they will be placed into the escalation process which includes notifying the buyer and their
management as appropriate.
Responsible sourcing service Providers
Many of the service providers that support our Responsible Purchasing activities have focused elements that are specific
to identifying and addressing human rights violations. We have partnered with RCS Global and are an active member of
the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI). Both of these organizations are recognized providers that conduct onsite audits
throughout the supply chain including Tier 1 suppliers as well as mine sites. This is another way that we fulfill our duty to
adhere to the high expectation of vigilance.
RCS Global
■ mapping battery supply chain to gain greater transparency
■ on-site audits in the sub-tier supply chain levels
■ expanded materials of focus
■ utilization of tools such as the Vine data base
■ increase in scope for materials of focus to address materials used in EV batteries
■ sending corrective actions for suppliers post audit
Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI)
■ engagement with multiple work groups
■ use of the Smelter database to support our Conflict Minerals filing
■ Risk Readiness Assessment (RRA) promotes common understanding of good practices and a means to consistently
assess risks in mineral supply chains
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
■ Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP) is an assessment that employs a risk-based approach to validate
smelters' company-level management processes for responsible mineral procurement
■ Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) is an essential tool to gather information about the source of materials in
our products, and the smelters and refiners that process the materials.
■ Cobalt Reporting Template (CRT) is a standardized reporting template developed to identify choke points and collect
due diligence information in the cobalt supply chain
■ Material Insights interactive module to update the prior Material Insights report
We are members of several automotive industry associations . For the detailed list refer to 5.1.6
7.2.7 MAIN INITIATIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND RESULTS GRI 2-16 GRI 2-25 GRI 2-28
GRI 407-1 GRI 408-1 GRI 409-1
Initiatives to support the respect of human rights in the supply chain
GRI 412-2 GRI 414-1 GRI 414-2
Stellantis incorporates workforce-related and social criteria into the purchasing process to ensure our focus on human
rights is upheld within the extended global supply chain. Our suppliers are expected to sign and apply the requirements
from our Responsible Purchasing Guidelines which has specific attention on compliance with social and ethical principles.
The Stellantis Responsible Purchasing Guidelines are inspired by the recommendations of the OECD Guidelines for For more information refer
Multinational Enterprises and envision: to 7.1.5 and 7.1.7
■ a public commitment to human rights
■ risk mapping for human rights infringements
■ preventive measures to address identified risks
■ corrective action must be taken for suppliers potentially or currently involved in a human rights infringement
■ action plan monitoring
■ communication of measures put in place.
Stellantis identifies the regions and areas that have the largest risk of human rights violations and modern slavery.
The regions and areas at risk are identified based on two criteria:
■ country (countries that have not signed up to global agreements, countries ill-equipped to enforce international laws)
■ manufacturing process (whether it requires a significant amount of low-skilled labor and additionally is dangerous).
Based on this, the Company applies a graduated reasonable efforts approach. This might result in removing a supplier
from the panel or bid if it should become evident that it was directly or indirectly involved in this type of practice. It is the
Company’s policy to assist and guide suppliers so that they can improve. However, if they are clearly unwilling to make
changes, Stellantis reserves the right to cease all contact and to remove them from its supplier database.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
Practicing due diligence Stellantis is co-chair of the
Responsible Minerals workgroup
Stellantis works to apply due diligence to ensure that its social demands are met by its suppliers. We apply risk-based
which leads auto industry
due diligence measures that seek to identify risks and prevent serious infringements of human rights and fundamental
engagement in cobalt, mica and
freedoms in our supply chain of subcontractors or suppliers with whom there is an established business relationship. conflict minerals activities and
We seek to incorporate our expectations into our relationship with our suppliers, deriving inspiration from OECD Due relationships in the Automotive
Diligence Guidance. The measures put in place by the GPSC aim to ensure that suppliers fulfill social and environmental Industry Action Group (AIAG)
commitments. Corporate Responsibility
Steering Committee
Stakeholder engagement
Through engagement with several multi-stakeholder organizations, both within and outside the automotive industry,
Stellantis seeks to address not only the needs, but the opportunities that exist through ethical and conscientious
procurement practices during the mineral extraction, trade and processing stages. Stellantis collaborates with automotive
and cross-industry associations to develop the global extended supply chain and build resources that support due
diligence activities.
Stellantis has specific legal obligations, section 1502 of the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act and the new EU regulation, that must
be met regarding the country of origin for conflict minerals. We are required to conduct due diligence to determine
whether tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold in the supply chain originated from the covered countries, and whether
the procurement of those minerals supported armed conflict in the region. This issue is not unique for Stellantis and
working to build industry resources is beneficial for us and our suppliers that are often common among automotive
manufacturers.
Stellantis is a member of Drive Sustainability. This association provides greater engagement with other OEMs, as well
as access to additional tools and resources. In 2022, newly revised Guiding Principles which outline expectations for
suppliers on key responsibility issues including human rights, environment, working conditions and business ethics
were published by the Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG) and the Drive Sustainability group. AIAG Guidelines
https://www.drivesustainability.org/wp-content/
In the AIAG Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee, Stellantis was elected co-chair of the Responsible Minerals
uploads/2023/03/Automotive-Sustainability-
Guiding-Principles-4.0v2-Final.pdf
workgroup which leads auto industry engagement in cobalt, mica and conflict minerals activities and relationships.
Stellantis employees are engaged in a number of other AIAG teams that partner automakers with suppliers. New groups
are launched to address industry issues such as the Forced Labor and Human Rights team that brings together volunteers
from diverse departments with specific backgrounds such as Customs and CSR experts.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
Our membership with the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), which was founded by members of the Responsible
Business Alliance (RBA) and the Global e-Sustainability Initiative, supports cross-industry discussion and development
of common tools. Participation on RMI sub-teams facilitates development of best practices for supply chain assurance
mechanisms. We work closely with RMI and its Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP). The RMAP uses an
independent third-party assessment of smelters and refiners’ management systems and sourcing practices to validate
conformance with RMAP standards. The assessment employs a risk-based approach to validate smelters and refiners’
company-level management processes for responsible mineral procurement.
Through our work with diverse stakeholder organizations we are helping to build fair supply chains of minerals in the
covered countries.
Focus on conflict minerals
Earnings from mining gold, tin, tantalum and tungsten might be used to finance armed conflict in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo and surrounding countries. In accordance with required U.S. and EU regulations, Stellantis’ policy requires
the utmost transparency from its suppliers about the origin of any raw materials and minerals they use. A specific
clause is inserted in the purchase contract for battery suppliers (article 16.2.3), stating that the supplier must disclose the
detailed composition of the materials used to manufacture the parts supplied, as well as any changes in that composition.
This requirement complies with the French Law of Duty of Vigilance. The supplier must also provide the written information
necessary to comply with the legislation in force, particularly on consumer protection and conflict minerals. The Purchasing
Department identifies the in-scope suppliers to include in the annual Conflict Minerals reporting campaign.
Stellantis is engaged to reduce the use of raw materials that carry environmental and social risks For more information refer to 6.1
Stellantis has access to a wide range of information and data from RMI that supports our efforts to ensure that sustainability
standards are implemented by smelters and the mining industry. The Company has access to the RMI smelter database,
assurance process and all the latest information and training materials available to support appropriate due diligence to
promote responsible raw material supply chains. The Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) that is provided by the
RMI is requested from the in-scope suppliers using the 3TG metals (tungsten, tantalum, tin and gold). If there are concerns
regarding the sourcing of raw materials, the suppliers have to address the concerns and potentially set up alternative
sources. The Company thus seeks to exercise its duty of care and foster sustainable procurement.
The Conflict Minerals reporting process begins by determining the in-scope suppliers that have parts that contain >2,000
tantalum, tin, tungsten or gold, based on part data from the International Material Data Sheets (IMDS). A response to
the CMRT is then required from more than 2,000 in-scope direct and after-market suppliers in order to obtain smelter
suppliers involved in Stellantis
information. Conflict Minerals Reporting
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
Further, we: We work to promote
sourcing from
■ expect our suppliers to source materials from suppliers who also source responsibly, including from legitimate, conflict-
responsible sources
free mines in the covered countries
■ require relevant suppliers make reasonable efforts to conduct the necessary due diligence and provide us with proper
verification of the country of origin and source of the materials used in the products they supply to Stellantis
■ support initiatives to verify smelters and refiners that are conflict-free and expect our suppliers to utilize any such
conflict-free smelter/refiner programs that are available
■ review all incoming CMRT submissions from our suppliers
■ provide detailed smelter analysis to suppliers reporting non-conformant smelters in their supply chain.
To prepare suppliers for submitting information Stellantis provided training for the targeted suppliers regarding the
completion and submission of the CMRT.
We strive to ensure companies or individuals in legal business activities are not harmed by our efforts to avoid using
minerals that are illegally obtained. To this end, we work to promote sourcing from responsible sources in the region.
Stellantis also engages with industry and cross-sector groups to promote and develop our raw material supply chain
focusing on, but not limiting our efforts to, commodities such as cobalt and mica.
Cobalt and others
Cobalt is of growing interest for the auto industry due to its use in electric vehicle batteries. Stellantis has taken action
to engage suppliers regarding cobalt in their products given the ongoing concerns around the use of child/forced labor,
and other unsafe or non-compliant practices in the mining of cobalt. Expanding into new materials relies on the lessons
learned from our Conflict Minerals process in addition to applying industry tools and resources.
Utilizing and teaching our suppliers the OECD 5-Step Framework for Upstream and Downstream Supply Chains provides
a common foundational tool that helps solidify responsible sourcing practices and decisions made throughout our
supply chain. In addition, cross-sector engagement brings together experts from numerous industries to use their global
presence and leverage to drive ground-level improvements in the mining of metals and minerals through process, tool
and infrastructure improvements.
To help companies address these challenges, the RMI has developed the Risk Readiness Assessment, which addresses
environmental, social and governance risks present in the global supply chain. This tool can help improve supply chain
transparency and mapping to mitigate undesirable practices as they relate to Conflict Minerals, cobalt and other raw
materials. RMI has also collaborated with the Responsible Cobalt Initiative on a joint cobalt refiner audit program, aligned
with the OECD Due Diligence Guidance and the Chinese Due Diligence Guidelines for Mineral Supply Chains.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
In 2022 Stellantis further extended its partnership with the responsible sourcing advisory, traceability technology and
audit firm RCS Global, for a multi-material supply chain program covering battery materials including cobalt, lithium,
graphite, and nickel.
The program continues the groundbreaking work started in 2020 which identified the origin of raw materials, human
rights risks, and due diligence conformance of the Stellantis supply chain.
Since 2021 the Purchasing Department utilizes Vine – RCS Global’s online due diligence management platform for supply
chain traceability and supply chain visualization. Stellantis is an early supporter of Vine, which allows the Company to
identify, review and analyze sustainability risks and respond rapidly to critical risks where they are identified.
Mica represents another area of concern for child labor. It is used predominantly in surface coatings and contained in
other vehicle materials, such as in polymers for exterior mirror housing and covers. Stellantis has been a supporter of the
2021 release of the Global Workplace Standard for Mica Processors which addressed social obligations covering a range
of labor practices such as; age of employment, fair working hours, minimum wages and overtime, grievance mechanisms,
freedom of association and diversity provisions, including women’s rights and under-represented communities.
Human rights impacts are a concern due to the mining practices deployed to harvest the mineral Bauxite, which is used
in aluminum production. In an effort to raise awareness and reinforce the automotive industries focus on human rights
in the supply chain, the members of Drive Sustainability collaborated in 2021 to send a letter to the European Aluminum
Association and to The Aluminum Association in the U.S. regarding Bauxite mining in Guinea. The message expressed our
commitment to protect human rights in the aluminum automotive supply chain.
Achievements
Almost 700 Purchasing employees trained on Human Rights policies or procedures, a strong increase compared to
220 employees trained in 2021.
CSR Assessment
EcoVadis supplier assessments include corrective action plans to drive overall score improvements. Corrective action plans
are a key factor to account for gap closure and sustainable long-term impact.
■ With an average overall Human Rights section score of 54.1 (up by 0,9 versus. 2021), suppliers working with Stellantis Stellantis suppliers average Ecovadis
outperformed all suppliers assessed by EcoVadis, who have an average score of 47.6 (up by 1 .0 versus. 2021) overall Human Rights score
■ During 2022, 359 assessed or audited suppliers received a corrective action plan specifically on human rights issues, 54.1
which is 12 percent of the total assessed or audited suppliers versus 333 in 2021 which accounted for 13 percent of the
total assessed or audited suppliers.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
On-site Audits are used as a means to address activities that are deemed higher risk. This is the next phase of our due The detailed findings from our on-site
diligence process, to increase the focus on topics that are critical for Stellantis regarding CSR . Each audit finding requires a audits can be found in 7.1.8.1
corrective action plan that is tracked through implementation. In 2022, 71 corrective action plans have been launched, each
containing multiple elements. Some examples of improvements that were realized in 2022 together with our suppliers are:
Human rights
■ grievance committees and works committees that workers can raise issues or concerns to were introduced
■ suppliers updated their Code of Conduct and Standards of Conduct with the statement to be not engaged in forced
labor, child labor, or any other similar activities.
Health & Safety at work
■ emergency first aid equipment was installed and closer maintained
90%
■ workers were trained as qualified first aiders
Environment of targeted suppliers have
submitted the CMRT ■ boundary noise level testings were conducted to ensure that the noise nuisance will be improved for workers
Management System
■ suppliers have started to conduct supplier visits to confirm their activities to their own suppliers
Conflict Minerals reporting
■ 90% of the in-scope suppliers for parts containing tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold have submitted the required CMRT.
■ 71.5% of smelters reported have been validated as conformant according to the RMAP standard
■ 14.3% of smelters are listed and being active according to the RMAP or cross-sector recognized standards
The percentage of turnover slightly decreased in 2022 due to the late answer of some suppliers and the increase of
suppliers involved.
Final status of 2022 supplier assessment on conflict minerals
Status by turnover
89.6%
COMPLETED
92.1%
2.3%
IN PROCESS
5.8%
2022 8.1%
NO RESPONSE
2.1% 2021
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
RCS Global audits
Program extended successfully in 2022
■ Completed audits: 30 total audits, 21 initial audits and 9 re-audits of companies at every Tier of Stellantis’ cobalt and
lithium supply chains (battery manufacturer, cathode manufacturer, refiner, treatment unit, and mine site). Audit scope:
cobalt, lithium, nickel and graphite
■ Accepted Corrective Action Plans: 15
■ Identified suppliers: >680
■ Number of Country of Origin (for mine site): 15
● Australia, Madagascar, Brazil, DRC, China, Turkey, Ivory Coast, Canada, New Caledonia, Russian Federation, U.S., Papa
New Guinea, Indonesia, Chile, Finland.
The results put Stellantis in a good position to significantly address human rights risks in its supply chain where
they exist.
Business with the sheltered sector
Services bought from the adapted
and sheltered sector
Stellantis is committed to helping our suppliers maintain their policy of inclusion of handicapped workers. Promoting equal
opportunity in the workplace is vital to Stellantis’ human resources management and the Company's long-term success. A € 50 M
wider, more diverse pool of talent improves the Company’s understanding of our workforce and our customers. Stellantis
works with six major French associations: Fondation Pluriel (former Adapei du Doubs), Adapei de Haute Saône, Talendi
(former Bretagne Ateliers), Adapei Papillons Blancs in Alsace, Les Ateliers de l’Ostrevent, the AMIPI/SLAMI Foundation
together with Spanish association ILUNION.
The services bought from the adapted and sheltered sector added up to €50 million.
Diversity and Inclusion
■ Stellantis is focused on empowering equal employment opportunities based on merit without regard to race, color, sex,
sexual orientation, gender identity, transgender status, age, protected veteran status, marital status, religion, national
origin, disability status, genetic information or other basis protected by law. We work to include diversity and inclusion
considerations as an everyday practice in our dealings with our employees, our dealers, our suppliers and our customers.
Stellantis believes the diversity of our suppliers should reflect the diversity of our workforce and the communities in
which we do business. Stellantis provided support to organizations that included DisabilityIN where the focus is on
empowering business to achieve disability inclusion and equality.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
■ Stellantis spent more than $7.9 billion with Tier 1 and Tier 2 diverse suppliers in 2022. The External Balanced Scorecard We work to include diversity
of U.S.-based suppliers to Stellantis includes a metric for diversity sourcing at the Tier 2 level. The diversity spend status and inclusion considerations
of each supplier is monitored monthly and reviewed with them quarterly. as an everyday practice
in our dealings with our
■ Recognition of the diversity efforts the Company has made are presented throughout the year. These awards honor
employees, our dealers, our
corporations for diversity programs that reduce barriers and drive growth for suppliers that are appropriately certified
suppliers and our customers
with approved councils.
■ The U.S. operations of Stellantis received the following awards for our focus on diversity during 2022:
■ Top 3 Supplier Diversity Program out of 2,100 U.S. based companies - DiversityInc
■ Top Corporations for Minority Businesses, NMSDC
■ Presenting Sponsor Award, VOBRT
■ Top Corporations Award, WBENC
$7.9
billion
■ Best in Class Award 2022, Great Lakes WBC
■ ACE Awards: President's Award, Mark Stewart spent with Tier 1 and Tier 2
diverse suppliers
■ Rainbow PUSH, Benchmark Award
Stellantis also supported inclusion across our supply base through the North American 23rd annual Matchmaker event,
which creates opportunities for diverse suppliers. Matchmaker events provide minority-owned, women-owned and
veteran-owned businesses access to our Tier I suppliers and to decision makers within our procurement organization. In
2022, the event featured over 150 exhibitors and over 1,000 attendees, including over 200 diverse business owners and
over 100 Tier I supplier decision-makers.
Training, mentorship, scholarship support, sponsorships, membership and Board and committee participation are some of
the ways we support organizations, which include:
■ Billion Dollar Roundtable
■ National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce
■ National Minority Supplier Development Council
■ DisabilityIN
■ Canadian Aboriginal and Minority Supplier Council
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
■ Women’s Business Enterprise National Council We support organizations
■ WECONNECT International by training, mentorship,
scholarship support,
■ Michigan Hispanic Chamber of Commerce
sponsorships, membership
■ National Business League (Former Michigan Black Chamber)
and Board and committee
■ Asian Pacific American Chamber of Commerce participation
■ Michigan Minority Supplier Development Council
■ Veteran Owned Business Roundtable
■ Rainbow Push
■ Great Lakes Women’s Council Conference
■ National Veteran Business Development Council
7.2.8 DETAILED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
7.2.8.1 Actions implemented on Labor and human rights by Stellantis suppliers
Suppliers assessed by Ecovadis
2022 90%
Actions on employee health
and safety issues
2021 68%
Evidence of actions on child labor, 2022 64%
forced labor
& human trafficking 2021 N/A
2022 37%
Reporting on health and safety
indicators
2021 60%
2022 20%
Global Compact Signatory
2021 41%
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
7.3 Philanthropic actions to support communities
7.3.1 CONTEXT AND STELLANTIS POSITION
CSR issue/challenge #22: Philanthropic actions to support communities
As a corporate citizen, Stellantis wants to make a positive contribution to society in the countries where
we operate. We want to share with our communities our values, knowledge and resources through our GRI 3-3
philanthropic actions. The world is changing very fast due to the impact from many major events (the war in
22 Philanthropic actions to support
the Ukraine, COVID-19, resources scarcity, growing inflation, climate change). Stellantis wants to mitigate the communities
significant impact on people in their day-to-day lives and more specifically on people who have fewer options
due to limited resources. We aim to support these people through mobility and educational projects and
empower them while inspiring hope.
Company’s public position
Stellantis, as a member of the Global Compact , plays a role in building a more stable, inclusive and sustainable society. Global Compact website
By mobilizing financial and human resources to help Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO), Non-Profit Institutions http://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc
(NPI) and support employee initiatives, we can develop and deploy philanthropic projects of general interest adapted to
the specific needs of the communities in which we operate. The projects we implement are designed to have a positive
impact in these communities.
7.3.2 FORWARD-LOOKING VISION AND TARGETS
Commitment scoreboard
Following the merger of former Groupe PSA and FCA, in January 2021, Stellantis reorganized its philanthropic
activity. In 2021 and 2022 Stellantis continued to focus on its previous engagements. In 2022, Stellantis disclosed Driven by our societal
its new philanthropy strategy aligned with “Dare Forward 2030” Strategic Plan and focused on needs of vulnerable commitment, we empower
people in the communities where we operate: people through access to
mobility and education
Driven by our societal commitment, we empower people through access to mobility and education.
The first implementation phase of this strategy will start in 2024.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
CSR ISSUE/ VISION/AMBITION STRATEGIC KPIS COMMITMENT RESULTS
CHALLENGE
Medium-term
Short-term Long-term 2022 2021
(End of Strategic Plan)
22 Philanthropic Driven by our societal Amount of budget for 2023: at least €15 2030: at least €15 2038: at least €15 Stellantis managed Stellantis managed
actions to support commitment, we philanthropy million dedicated to million dedicated to million dedicated to the former the former
communities empower people philanthropy philanthropy philanthropy commitments commitments from
Owner: Chief through access to + all philanthropic + at least one + at least one from the legacy the legacy charitable
Communication & mobility and education projects focused philanthropic project philanthropic charitable entities entities
CSR Officer on the new in each region* project in each
philanthropic region and for each
strategy* philanthropic focus
areas*
* Amount decided on a yearly basis, based on Stellantis current performance and general economy financial trend, and benchmark with OEM involvement in philanthropy.
7.3.3 IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES GRI 2-29
RISKS MITIGATION OPPORTUNITIES
Business risk: ▪ Stellantis corporate philanthropy strategy supports projects only ▪ Through an employee nomination process there will be the
Certain countries where we have strategic plans to operate in the countries where we operate and provided by recognized opportunity to identify, experiment, extend or spread successful
or current operations require philanthropic activities to fulfill NGOs or NPIs that are locally well respected in focus countries to projects in other countries.
contractual legal expectations. create innovative philanthropic projects. ▪ We can bring forward new innovative projects.
The risk is to support projects that are not adapted to the ▪ Stellantis supports employee volunteer projects in which we
community priorities and are not socially impactful. could have an added value.
Operational management risk: ▪ Stellantis will fund the independent Stellantis Foundation, ▪ The high number of projects received allows Stellantis to select
Donation requests received by Stellantis, as a big company, formerly known as “FCA Foundation”, based on the company’s the most innovative employee volunteerism projects.
exceeds the amount of its philanthropic allocated resources. financial performance and management assessment ▪ Stellantis philanthropic strategy supports actions to strengthen
Refusals might deteriorate relationships with NGOs and local ▪ Stellantis Foundation and its trustees identify and recommend our connection to local communities while respecting their
communities because we cannot support all of them. projects to third party Grant making partner cultures and traditions.
▪ Stellantis Foundation terms and conditions will be executed ▪ Multi-year projects with larger funding are more impactful.
by a third-party grant making partner which will vet all NGOs
against compliance requirements , secure grants applications and
agreements and execute grant payments.
Reputational risk: ▪ Stellantis will make an annual contribution to the independent ▪ Stellantis may identify qualified employee volunteer
Donation requests may come from organizations whose Stellantis Foundation, which will work with a grant-making opportunities based on the qualified grants advised by the
behavior or actions are not in line with Stellantis values. organization to conduct a thorough review and validation of all Stellantis Foundation.
NGOs consistent with our code of conduct and all laws in order to ▪ Employees could be engaged to volunteer for projects to
guard against reputational risk. reinforce their sense of belonging.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
7.3.4 GOVERNANCE AND DECISION BODIES TO LEAD ACTIONS GRI 413-1
Stellantis philanthropic activities are organized in three channels:
The Stellantis Foundation is the philanthropic arm of Stellantis. The Stellantis Foundation (formerly known as “FCA
Foundation” renamed in 2022) is a separate legal entity under U.S. IRS regulations, In 2023, the Stellantis Foundation will
administer the global grantmaking program and will develop a process to allow consideration of employee-nominated
projects. Under the leadership of Foundation Chairman, John Elkann, a board of Trustees governs the Stellantis Foundation.
They approve the philanthropy strategy and the main engagement areas and they select the projects to advise for funding.
Stellantis makes an annual donation to the Stellantis Foundation.
Corporate donations to NGOs or NPOs for emergency aid (COVID-19 pandemic, humanitarian to Ukraine), social issues
or business related activities in the communities in partnership with charities are proposed for 2022 by the Head of
Philanthropy or relevant EVPs to the CEO for approval.
Employee volunteerism is under the responsibility of the Chief Human Resources & Transformation Officer, member
of the Top Executive Team. These programs are aligned with the Philanthropy strategy and shared with regional and
country HR teams.
2022 STELLANTIS KEY FIGURES
€19.7 124 4,779
mln
Dedicated to Philanthropic Hours volunteered
philanthropic projects projects supported by employees
In 2022, Stellantis demonstrated its corporate citizenship and supported 124 philanthropic projects (versus 100 in 2021)
around the world through our corporate foundation and direct corporate giving for a total amount of €19,7 million (versus
€14,4 million. in 2021). Stellantis managed the transition to the new philanthropic focus. We mainly continued to support
multi-year projects that started before the merger. The legacy charitable entities managed their former commitments on
the basis of their previous governance.
The 2022 year was dedicated to the redesign and reorganization of the philanthropy strategy and activities including
working on proposals for a new governance structure. The new philanthropy ambition engagement areas will be
announced in 2023.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
7.3.5 POLICIES TO EXECUTE THE STRATEGY
Stellantis charitable donations
Stellantis supports the vulnerable in our communities with two types of projects:
■ Educational projects that meet the needs and expectations of the communities with a focus on STEM and literacy
■ Mobility projects that lift the barriers to access to education and employment.
Stellantis philanthropy strategy contributes to some of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG).
The social contributions focused on education to empower people and build resilient communities with effects that can
extend generations into the future. Investments were made in programs that generated meaningful and measurable
impact in our communities, with an emphasis on STEM, literacy education improvement and problem-solving and in youth
development . For more information refer to 7.3.7
In 2022, Stellantis corporate giving initiatives and charitable contributions were made to support local community needs in
the countries where Stellantis operated. Donations were made in healthcare, disaster relief, environment protection and
conservation, veterans support and community events including support of Ukrainian refugees and civilians displaced by
the war in the Ukraine . For more information refer to 7.3.7.1
Employee volunteerism:
Stellantis encourages employees to address the societal needs of the communities in which they live and work through
employee volunteerism programs . In 2021, these programs focused on quality education and creating sustainable cities For more information refer to 3.1.7
and communities were proposed in 3 regions North America, South America, and China. In 2022, they were expanded
in the other regions India Asia Pacific, Enlarged Europe and Middle East Africa through pilot programs. The volunteer
engagement areas are:
■ Education (STEM, mentoring, tutoring and literacy)
■ Basic needs (food security, shelter & clothing, natural disasters)
■ Environment (Invasive species, watershed, conservation, gardens)
■ Resilient and sustainable communities (beautification, house builds, cultural heritage)
713 employees (versus 1,117 in 2021) around the world supported 59 projects (versus 47 projects in 2021) representing more
than 4,779 hours of working time versus 6,249 hours of working time in 2021.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
7.3.6 ORGANIZATION AND RESOURCES GRI 203-1 GRI 203-2
Stellantis has a diversified approach to corporate citizenship and uses different types and categories of donations
to support communities in the most efficient way. In 2022, many Stellantis entities, under the control of the
philanthropy team, donated to NGOs or non-profit organizations to help the people in need in the communities
where we operate. Depending on the goals of the project proposed by NGOs, the donations may be annual or
multi-year.
Resources by type and category of donations
Working time spent
Monetary contributions In-kind giving volunteering by employee Overhead expenses Total %
Year in € in € in € in €
2022 1,128,653 ‘- 187,428 494,504 1,810,585 9%
Charitable donations
2021 5,836,917 216 107,731 763,234 6,708,098 44%
2022 14,987,544 1,225 ‘- ‘- 14,988,770 74%
Community
investments
2021 1,546,279 ‘- 2,870 ‘- 1,549,149 10%
Commercial initiatives 2022 3,329,805 79,425 ‘- ‘- 3,409,230 17%
in partnership with
charities 2021 5,832,088 206,227 872,962 ‘- 6,911,277 46%
2022 19,446,002 80,650 187,428 494,504 20,208,584 100%
Total
2021 13,215,285 206,442 983,563 763,234 15,168,524 100%
2022 96% —% 1% 2% 100%
%
2021 87% 1% 6% 5% 100%
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
7.3.7 MAIN INITIATIVES, ACHIEVEMENTS AND RESULTS
Stellantis intends to have philanthropic initiatives that are designed to make the world and society a better place.
In 2022, Stellantis has focused its projects on emergency aid, education philanthropic initiatives and employee volunteerism
program. The Stellantis achievements support our focus to create positive social and environmental impacts. GRI 413-1
Total monetary values and number of projects distributed by focus areas in 2022
85%
EDUCATION
41 PROJECTS - € 16,621,929
10%
ENVIRONMENTAL, CULTURAL, SOCIAL URGENCY, FOOD DISTRIBUTION
(INCLUDING PREVENTING NUTRITIOUS FOOD WASTE), AND OTHERS
79 PROJECTS - € 2,022,359
5%
EMERGENCY AID
4 PROJECTS - € 1,069,792
7.3.7.1 SUPPORT TO EMERGENCY AID
Support to Ukraine
Stellantis mobilized in March 2022 to help Ukrainians, we donated €1 million in humanitarian aid to support the Ukrainian PRESS RELEASE
refugees and civilians displaced by the war .
Stellantis Donates €1 Million to
This donation to Polish Humanitarian Action helped thousands of war victims with immediate humanitarian needs, Ukrainian Refugees and Civilians
including food and hygiene kits, as well as cash assistance. It also includes activities like psychological support, support for https://www.stellantis.com/en/news/press-
releases/2022/march/stellantis-donates-
internally displaced people and centers helping internally displaced people, or the distribution of food and hygiene parcels. 1-million-to-ukrainian-refugees-and-
civilians#:~:text=March%202%2C%202022%20
Flood victims' assistance in Brazil Stellantis%20Donates%20%E2%82%AC1%20
Million%20to,refugees%20and%20civilians%20
In 2022, Heavy rains hit the region near the Stellantis Goiana plant and Porto Real factory putting many families out of displaced%20by%20the%20current%20crisis.
their home. Stellantis South America supported almost 3,000 homeless families through the donation of food, personal
items, cleaning items, pillows and blankets. The Fiat Dealership Network also participated by mobilizing customer
donations in favor of the victims.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
7.3.7.2 SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE EDUCATIONAL PROJECTS
Scientific Education
Unveiled in 2019 in Geneva, Switzerland, CERN is a Science Gateway project, a hub for scientific education and culture. Go to CERN website
In 2021, CERN held a first stone ceremony attended by Stellantis Chairman John Elkann, as the next step in the creation https://home.cern/search/node?keys=FCA
of the Science Gateway. Supported by the FCA Foundation, the ambitious and innovative Science Gateway project is
expected to raise awareness, curiosity and passion for science. CERN will offer a variety of spaces and activities, with
exhibitions explaining the secrets of nature, the very small elementary particles and the very large structure and evolution
of the universe. The exhibitions will feature CERN's accelerators, experiments and computing, how scientists use them in
their exploration and how CERN technologies benefit society. Hands-on experimentation will be a key part of the Science
Gateway's educational program, allowing visitors to experience first-hand what it is like to be a scientist. The immersive
activities available in the Science Gateway will foster critical thinking, evidence-based assessment and use of the scientific
method, which are important tools in all walks of life. The building supported through the grant is expected to be ready in
May 2023. The school project also is progressing, with plans to train the first 100 teachers in Spring 2023.
Employment development skills
In 2022 a Stellantis Foundation grant supported 80 high-school-level FIRST Robotics teams, many mentored by Stellantis
employees, as well as the state championship event in Michigan. The Foundation served as volunteer sponsor of the
event, attended by 4,800 students on 160 teams and 2,200 engineers, mentors, volunteers and spectators. FIRST(For
inspiration and Recognition of Science and technology) is an international program designed to increase student interest
in STEM activities and encourage students to pursue a career or skilled trade in a STEM-related field.
Mentoring program
Stellantis, together with the non-profit association Instituto Árvore da Vida, supports Árvore da Vida (Tree of Life) the People who have benefited from the
social project in the Jardim Teresópolis community, near the Stellantis plant in Betim (Brazil). The program, which began in mentoring program
2004, aims to promote social, cultural and economic growth of independence and empowerment of local residents while >23,600
providing support for the children and their families. In this after-school project there are two main areas of focus, one is
professional inclusion and the other is social inclusion through cultural development. Children ages 2 to 17 participated in
various training programs to prepare them for professional development and employment. The children also participated
in cultural activities such as music classes and choir. Youth learn collaboration, teamwork, public speaking and other soft
skills. 2021 marked the 17th anniversary of this project. More than 23,600 people have benefited from the program since
its inception. In 2022, the project launched a new Coworking Space with the aim of promoting integration and learning for
program beneficiaries and community members. In its first year, Coworking trained 30 community leaders in social project
management and became a reference in the neighborhood as a place to discuss challenges, develop projects and engage
people who want to improve the quality of life in their community.
OTIRRET
FO
TNEMPOLEVED
CIMONOCE
DECNALAB
A
GNITROPPUS
DNA
STHGIR
NAMUH
FO
NOITCETORP
GNIRU
7.3.7.3 EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM PROGRAM EMPLOYEE
VOLUNTEERISM
North America
PROGRAM
For four years, Stellantis has supported the United Service Organizations Inc. (USO) through its employee volunteerism
program. The USO strengthens the United States’ military members throughout their service, connecting them to family,
home and country. In 2022, nearly 150 Stellantis employees teamed up with the USO, dedicating approximately 700 total
hours to assemble 10,033 care packages to be distributed to U.S. troops deployed overseas.
South America
In Brazil, Stellantis has partnered with Formare - a kids education program - for the last 14 years. Employees started
a nine-month program with FORMARE in 2022 to offer a professional and quality education to young people in need.
Ten Stellantis volunteers have committed a total of 200 hours to more than 20 students who are a part of the program.
Middle East & Africa
Forty-five Stellantis employees organized a special project in a new collaboration with the Moroccan Association for the
Support of the Orphan. Employees spent 360 hours renovating the orphanage's main cafeteria, establishing a library and
gathering school supplies to benefit approximately 180 kids.
Enlarged Europe
In 2022, Stellantis employees in the U.K. connected for the first time with Coventry Holiday Activities and Food (HAF).
HAF provides free activities, experiences and food for eligible children and young people during school holidays.
Approximately 26 employees spent 84 total hours packing, wrapping and delivering activity boxes to local children with
special needs.
XIDNEPPA
8
8
APPENDIX
8.1 REPORTING SCOPE AND METHODOLOGY 463
8.1.1 methodology for building the CSR reporting perimeter 463
8.1.2 Breakdowns of information provided 465
8.2 INDEXES 466
8.2.1 TCFD 466
8.2.2 SASB 467
8.2.3 ISO 26000 469
8.2.4 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) content index 471
8.2.5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT principles index with related GRI codes 479
8.2.6 DPEF 481
8.3 AUDITOR’S REPORT 485
8.4 SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT 491
8.5 ABOUT THIS REPORT 492
XIDNEPPA
8
8.1 Reporting scope and methodology GRI 3-2 SASB-000A
Stellantis consolidates and publishes indicators according to three guiding principles: being transparent, being thorough
and providing high-quality information.
The definitions of calculation rules or reference conventions used are international standards. Reference guides specifying
the methodologies, definitions and calculation procedures are used by the reporting contributors to ensure the quality
and consistency of the consolidated information. Unless otherwise indicated, all data presented in the report refers to the
International System of Units and may be subject to rounding.
Information presented in the report, follows a Pro Forma approach which has been prepared to give effect to completion
of the merger of PSA and FCA to create Stellantis, which was completed on January 17, 2021, as if it had been completed
on January 1, 2020.
The normalization factor for manufacturing activities adopted in chapters 2.6, 6.4, 6.5 and 6.6 is 5,768 thousand
vehicles produced.
In this report, unless otherwise specified, the terms “we”, “our”, “us”, ”its”, “Company” and “Stellantis” refer to Stellantis
N.V., together with its subsidiaries and its predecessor prior to the completion of the merger of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles
N.V. with Peugeot SA or any one or more of them, as the context may require.
8.1.1 METHODOLOGY FOR BUILDING THE CSR REPORTING PERIMETER GRI 3-1
The CSR scope of reporting is set up from the financial scope of reporting.
The CSR scope of reporting covers the fully consolidated companies (consolidated line by line) and does not consider entities
accounted for by the equity method or valued at cost in the consolidated financial statements, except where noted.
Selected entities or specific sites are excluded from the scope of reporting for some CSR issues. This is attributable to
the inability to obtain data of satisfactory quality, or to immateriality in relation to the Company as a whole, or to newly-
acquired entities or activities that are not fully operational, in the start up phase, under dismissal or sold during the
reporting year. For this reason, to determine the CSR scope of reporting, different filters are applied.
Read more
For more information on Stellantis entities included in the consolidated financial statements, refer to the 2022 Annual
https://www.stellantis.com/en/investors/
Report, available on the corporate website . reporting/financial-reports
For environmental-related information included in sections 2.6 and 6.3-6.7 of this Report, the following definitions are applied:
■ “Manufacturing”: relates to plants activities and includes also proving grounds and technical, R&D and ICT centers.
■ “Retail”: relates to Company-owned sales and after-sales activities, retail offices (such as import subsidiaries) and
logistics activities (spare parts warehouses and distribution centers).
XIDNEPPA
8
The sites included in the definitions above, are assessed to determine the inclusion in the scope of reporting against
specific thresholds based on: number of employees working onsite, size (m2) and other criteria.
A selection of sites in the Retail group, apply a different reporting period (November 1 - October 31) to allow data collection
and validation by the time of the release of this Report.
Information related to vehicles and services offered to customers, such as those presented in sections 2.5 and 4.1-4.3 of
this Report, may include data on vehicles produced and/or service offered by unconsolidated joint ventures.
References to "customer" as used in this Report refer to the end user of our products or services.
For human resources-related information included in Chapter 3, workforce KPIs are based on the CSR scope 2022.
Legal entities joining Stellantis less than six month ago or out from the HR consolidation tool are not taken into account.
Comau:
The non-financial information related to the subsidiary Comau is not included in Stellantis consolidated non-financial
statement, since Comau significance is not material to the whole. The impact on main industrial issues (water, energy,
GHG emission, air emission and waste) is not material, meanings lower than 5%.
Some entities published their own report.
Aramis:
The non-financial information related to the subsidiary Aramis, that counts 1,800 employees, is not included in Stellantis
consolidated non-financial statement, since Aramis significance is not material to the whole. Aramis represents less than
1% of total turnover, total headcount and total GHG emissions of Stellantis consolidated data. Consequently, the non-
financial information of Aramis has no impact on the consolidated statement established by Stellantis. It cannot affect the
sincerity and the conformity of the Stellantis consolidated statement with regards to the applicable law (NFRD).
In addition, as Aramis has its own risk management, policies, and set of KPIs that are specific to its activities, the efforts
to report Aramis non-financial information in accordance with Stellantis frameworks would not be in proportion, taking in
consideration Aramis’ representativity of less than 1%.
Nevertheless, transparency duty is fulfilled as, being a listed company, Aramis publishes its own Registration Document Regulated information - Aramis Group
in accordance with the NFRD: Regulated information - Aramis Group . Thus, interested stakeholders can access to the https://aramis.group/investors/regulated-
required information. information/
XIDNEPPA
8
8.1.2 BREAKDOWNS OF INFORMATION PROVIDED
Segments
Stellantis activities are carried out through six reportable segments: five regional vehicle segments and Maserati. These
reportable segments reflect the operating segments of the Company that are regularly reviewed by the Chief Executive
Officer, who is the “chief operating decision maker”, for making strategic decisions, allocating resources and assessing
performance, and that exceed the quantitative threshold provided in IFRS 8 – Operating Segments (“IFRS 8”), or whose
information is considered useful for the users of the financial statements.
The Company’s five regional vehicle reportable segments deal with the design, engineering, development, manufacturing,
distribution and sale of passenger cars, light commercial vehicles and related parts and services in specific geographic areas:
■ North America (U.S., Canada and Mexico),
■ South America (including Central America and the Caribbean islands),
■ Enlarged Europe (primarily the countries of the European Union, United Kingdom and Russia),
■ Middle East and Africa (primarily Turkey, Morocco, Egypt and Algeria) and
■ China and India & Asia Pacific (Asia and Pacific countries).
The Company's global luxury brand reportable segment, Maserati, deals with the design, engineering, development,
manufacturing, worldwide distribution and sale of luxury vehicles under the Maserati brand.
Other activities includes the results of our cast iron and aluminum components business, our financial services activities,
as well as the activities and businesses that are not operating segments under IFRS 8.
The breakdown by segments is adopted in a limited set of data within this Report.
Geographical Areas
In order to simplify the understanding of the reader, the majority of information is provided considering the geographical
distribution of where activities are located to reflect where impacts occur.
For this reason, the Maserati and Other sectors’ information are realigned into the 5 geographic areas:
■ North America (U.S., Canada and Mexico),
■ South America (including Central America and the Caribbean islands),
■ Enlarged Europe (primarily the countries of the European Union, United Kingdom and Russia),
■ Middle East and Africa (primarily Turkey, Morocco, Egypt and Algeria) and
■ China and India & Asia Pacific (Asia and Pacific countries).
XIDNEPPA
8
8.2 Indexes
8.2.1 TCFD
The following table provides the correspondence between the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
recommendations and the content of the present Report.
RELEVANT SECTIONS STATUS /
THEMATIC TCFD RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THIS CSR REPORT COMPLETION LEVEL
Governance (G) Ga. Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and 2.4 FULL
opportunities.
Disclose the organization’s
governance around climate-related Gb. Describe management’s role in assessing and managing 2.4 FULL
climate-related risks and opportunities.
risks and opportunities.
Strategy (S) Sa. Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities 2.3 FULL
the organization has identified over the short-, medium- and long-term.
Disclose the actual and potential
impacts of climate-related risks and Sb. Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on 2.3 / 2.5 / 2.6 / 2.7 PARTIAL
opportunities on the organisation’s the organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planning. Financial elements to be found in Taxonomy section
businesses, strategy and financial of the Annual Report
planning where such information is
Sc. Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into 2.3 / 2.5 / 2.6 / 2.7 PARTIAL
material. consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or
lower scenario.
Risk management (R) Ra. Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing 1.2 / 2.3 and Risk Management section of the PARTIAL
climate-related risks. Annual Report
Disclose how the organization
identifies, assesses and manages Rb. Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related 2.3 PARTIAL
risks.
climate-related risks.
Rc. Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing 1.2 / 2.3 PARTIAL
climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk
management.
Metrics and targets (M) Ma. Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess 2.5.3 / 2.5.4 / 2.6.3 / 2.6.4 / 2.7.3 / 2.7.4 FULL
climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk
Disclose the metrics and targets management process.
used to assess and manage relevant
climate-related risks and Mb. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse 2.5.4 / 2.6.4 / 2.7.4 FULL
gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks.
opportunities where such
information is material. Mc. Describe the targets used by the organization to manage 2.2 FULL
climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets.
XIDNEPPA
8
8.2.2 SASB
The following table provides the correspondence between the SASB Transportation Standard index and information
disclosed in the present report.
References to the Automotive industry ESG reporting of the SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board) are
denoted by: SASB-XXXx.x
ACCOUNTING METRIC CODE1 2022 RESULTS 2021 RESULTS RELEVANT SECTIONS
OF THIS CSR REPORT
Activity Number of vehicles manufactured SASB-000.A 5,768 thousand 5,687 thousand 8.1
Number of vehicles sold2 SASB-000.B 5,852 thousand 6,604 thousand 2.5.4
Product Safety Percentage of vehicle models rated by NCAP programs SASB-250a.1 NA7 NA7
with and overall 5-star safety rating, by region
Number of safety-related defect complaints, SASB-250a.2 NA7 NA7
percentage investigated
Number of vehicles recalled3 SASB-250a.3 14,708 thousand 3,003 thousand 4.3.7
a.Mandatory recalls 0 0 4.3.7
b.Voluntary recalls All 139 recall campaigns carried out All 124 recall campaigns 4.3.7
in 2022 were voluntary carried out in 2021 were
voluntary
Labor Practices Percentage of active workforce covered under SASB-310a.1 89% 87% 3.1.4
collective bargaining agreements
Number of work stoppages and total days idle SASB-310a.2 Number of work stoppages: 1 0 3.1.7
Total days idle: 1,100
Reason: requests for equipment to
be repaired/purchased, tempered
air/cooling, uniforms and cleanings.
Corrective actions: the parties
met and resolved the outstanding
issues.
Impact on operations: 1 full day of
production lost.
1 The standard codification of the SASB indicators in the format SASB TR-AU-XXXx.x is simplified into SASB-XXXx.x.
2 Sales figures are “sales to customers” based on Stellantis operational reporting tools.
3 Detail on notable campaigns is available in 4.3.7 .
4 Official information from French Authorities on French scope only. Data is only available with 1.5 years delay.
5 Official information from Europe only.
6 Sum of zero emission vehicles and plug-in hybrid vehicles.
7 NA: Information is Not Available.
8 Additional details on scope of reporting and calculation methodologies by region is provided in FY2022 CSR Report, table 2.5.4.1 .
XIDNEPPA
8
ACCOUNTING METRIC CODE1 2022 RESULTS 2021 RESULTS RELEVANT SECTIONS
OF THIS CSR REPORT
Fuel Economy Sales-weighted average passenger fleet fuel SASB-410a.1 2.5.4.1
and Use-phase economy, by region (gCO 2km, mpg, MJ/km, L/100km)8
Emissions European Union 27 + Norway + Iceland (gCO/km) M1 (Passenger Cars) 105.5 gCO/km 114.8 gCO/km 2.5.4.1
2 2 2
(gCOkm)
2 N1 (Light Commercial 168 gCO/km 189 gCO/km
2 2
Vehicles)
United States (mpg) Passenger Cars 27.2 mpg 27.7 mpg 2.5.4.1
domestic
Passenger Cars import 30.7 mpg 32.3 mpg
Light Duty Trucks 27.0 mpg 26.9 mpg
Brazil (MJ/km) Total Stellantis 1.7MJ/km 1.9 MJ/km 2.5.4.1
China (L/100km) Total domestic 5.4 L/100km 6.7 L/100km 2.5.4.1
Total import 9.1 L/100km 10.1 L/100km
Total Stellantis 6.0 L/100km 7.3 L/100km
Number of (1) zero emission vehicles (ZEV), (2) hybrid SASB-410a.2 823,856 393,7206 2.5.4.2
vehicles, and (3) plug-in hybrid vehicles sold
zero emission vehicles 288,167 206,339 2.5.4.2
hybrid vehicles 311,637 NA7 2.5.4.2
plug-in hybrid vehicles 224,052 187,381 2..5.4.2
Discussion of strategies and approach to managing SASB-410a.3 Disclosed Disclosed 2.3 / 2.4 / 2.5 / 6.2
fleet fuel economy and emissions risks and and related sub sections
opportunities
Materials Description of the management of risks associated SASB-440a.1 Disclosed Disclosed 6.1.3 / 7.1.3 / 7.2.3
Sourcing with the use of critical materials
Materials Total amount of waste from manufacturing (tons) SASB-440b.1 273,597 273,850 6.4.2 / 6.4.4.1 / 6.4.5
Efficiency and Percentage recycled (%) 69% 66%
Recycling
Weight of end-of-life material recovered (tons) SASB-440b.2 23,047 40,996 6.1.7.6
Percentage recycled (%)4 88% 87%
Average recyclability of vehicles sold (percentage %) SASB-440b.3 All the Company’s vehicles in All the Company’s vehicles in 6.1.7.4
by sales-weighted tons (Gt)5 Europe are 95% recoverable and Europe are 95% recoverable
85% recyclable and 85% recyclable
1 The standard codification of the SASB indicators in the format SASB TR-AU-XXXx.x is simplified into SASB-XXXx.x.
2 Sales figures are “sales to customers” based on Stellantis operational reporting tools.
3 Detail on notable campaigns is available in 4.3.7 .
4 Official information from French Authorities on French scope only. Data is only available with 1.5 years delay.
5 Official information from Europe only.
6 Sum of zero emission vehicles and plug-in hybrid vehicles.
7
XIDNEPPA
8
8.2.3 ISO 26000
The following table provides the correspondence between the Core subjects of ISO 26000 and the content of the present Report.
The items required by ISO 26000 standard are indicated hereinafter using the following icon: Stake 1, Stake 2, etc.
CORE SUBJECTS AND ISSUES/CHALLENGES RELEVANT SECTIONS OF THIS CSR REPORT
Core subject Organizational governance 1.3 / 2.4 / 3.1.4 / 3.2.4 / 3.3.4 / 3.4.4 / 4.1.4 / 4.2.4 / 4.3.4 / 5.1.4 / 5.2.4 / 5.3.4 / 6.1.4 /
6.2.4 / 6.3.1 / 7.1.4 / 7.2.4 / 7.3.4
Core subject Human rights 7.1 / 7.2
Stake 1 Due diligence 1.1.4.4 / 2.5.3 / 3.1.5 / 3.1.7 / 5.1.2 / 5.1.3 / 5.1.4.3 / 5.1.5.1 / 5.1.7 / 6.1.3 / 7.1.1 / 7.1.3 / 7.1.4 /
7.1.5 / 7.1.7.3 / 7.1.8.1 / 7.2 / Vigilance Plan
Stake 2 Human rights risk situations 1.1.4.4 / 3.1.5 / 7.2.3 / 7.2.7 / Vigilance Plan
Stake 3 Avoidance of complicity 5.1.4 / 5.1.5 / 5.1.7 / 7.1.5 / 7.1.6 / 7.1.7 / 7.1.8 / 7.2.4 / 7.2.5 / 7.2.6 / 7.2.7 / 7.2.8 /
Vigilance Plan
Stake 4 Resolving grievances 3.1.7
Stake 5 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 7.1.7 / 7.1.8 / 7.2.7 / 7.2.8
Stake 6 Civil and political rights 3.1.4 / 3.1.5 / 3.1.7 / 3.3.5 / 3.3.7 / 5.1.5.1
Stake 7 Economic, social and cultural rights 3.3 / 7
Stake 8 Fundamental principles and rights at work 3.1.4 / 3.1.5 / 3.4.6 / 3.4.7 / 5.1.5.1 / 7.1 / 7.2
Core subject Labor practices 3
Stake 9 Employment and employment relationships 3
Stake 10 Conditions of work and social protection 3.2.8 / 3.3.7 / 3.4.8
Stake 11 Social dialogue 1.1.4.3 / 1.2.1 / 1.2.4 / 3.1 / 3.3.5
Stake 12 Health and safety at work 3.4
Stake 13 Human development and training in the workplace 3.2 / 3.3
Core subject The environment 2 / 6
Stake 14 Prevention of pollution 2 / 6 / 7.1
Stake 15 Sustainable resource use 2.6 / 6.1 / 6.4 / 6.6
Stake 16 Climate change mitigation and adaptation 2
Stake 17 Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration 6.7
of natural habitats
XIDNEPPA
8
CORE SUBJECTS AND ISSUES/CHALLENGES RELEVANT SECTIONS OF THIS CSR REPORT
Core subject Fair operating practices 5 / 7
Stake 18 Anti-corruption 5.1 / 7.1
Stake 19 Responsible political involvement 5.1.4.2
Stake 20 Fair competition 5.1 / 5.3.1
Stake 21 Promoting corporate responsibility in the value chain 1
Stake 22 Respect for property rights 5.1 / 5.2
Core subject Consumers issues 4 / 5.2 / 5.3
Stake 23 Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair 5.3
contractual practices
Stake 24 Protecting consumer health and safety 4.3 / 6.2 / 6.3 / 6.5 / 6.6 / 6.7
Stake 25 Sustainable consumption 2.5 / 5.3/ 6.1 / 6.4 / 6.6
Stake 26 Consumer service, support and complaint and dispute 4.2
resolution
Stake 27 Consumer data protection and privacy 5.2
Stake 28 Access to essential services 4.1.7 / 4.2.6.2 / 4.2.7
Stake 29 Education and awareness 5.3
Core subject Communities and local development 7
Stake 30 Community involvement 7.1 / 7.2 / 7.3
Stake 31 Education and culture 1.1.4.5 / 3.1.6 / 3.1.7 / 3.3.7 / 6.6.3 / 6.7.3.2 / 6.7.4 / 7.3
Stake 32 Employment creation and skills development 3.1 / 3.2 / 7.1 / 7.2 / 7.3
Stake 33 Technology development and access 2.5.2 / 2.5.3.2
Stake 34 Wealth and income creation 3.1.6 / 3.1.7 / 3.2.5 / 3.2.7 / 3.2.8 / 7
Stake 35 Health 7.3.6 / 7.3.7
Stake 36 Social investment 3.4.7 / 3.4.8 / 7.1.6 / 7.1.7 / 7.3
XIDNEPPA
8
8.2.4 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) CONTENT INDEX
This report has been prepared with reference with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards published in 2016, modified in 2021.
The items required by GRI standards are indicated in this report using the following icon: GRI XXX-XX
Selected information has been validated by the independent audit firm Grant Thornton . For the detailed report refer to 8.4
Statement of use Stellantis has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period January 1 - December30, 2022 with reference to the GRI Standards.
GRI 1 used GRI 1: Foundation 2021
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
General disclosures
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 2-1 Organizational details 8.5
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting 8.1.1
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point 8.5
2-4 Restatements of information 3.2.2 / 3.2.8 / 3.3.8
2-5 External assurance 8.3
2-6 Activities, value chain, and other business relationships 1.1.1
2-7 Employees 1.1.2 / 3.1.7 / 3.1.8
2-8 Workers who are not employees 3.1.7 / 3.1.8
2-9 Governance structure and composition 1.3.2
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body 1.3.2 / 5.1.4.1
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body 1.3.2 and Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of impacts 1.1.3
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts 1.3.3
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting 1.3.2
2-15 Conflicts of interest 5.1 / 7.1.8.1
2-16 Communication of critical concerns 7.2.7
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body 5.1.4.1
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body 5.1.4.2 / 5.1.4.3
2-19 Remuneration policies 2.4.3 / 3.1.5 / 5.1.3.2 / 5.1.4.2 and Remuneration report section
in the Annual Report
XIDNEPPA
8
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
Economic performance 2-20 Process to determine remuneration 2.4.3 / 5.1.4.2 and Remuneration report section in the Annual Report
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio Remuneration report section in the Annual Report
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy 0.2 Message from chairman and CEO
2-23 Policy commitments 1.3 / 2.4.2
2-24 Embedding policy commitments 2.6.1 / 2.7.1 / 3.1.5 / 3.2.5 / 3.3.5 / 3.4.5 / 4.1.5 / 4.2.5 / 4.3.5 / 5.1.5 / 5.2.5 / 5.3.5 /
6.1.5 / 6.2.5 / 6.2.5.1 / 6.3.5 / 7.1.5 / 7.2.5 / 7.3.5
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts 3.1.7 / 7.2.7 / Vigilance Plan
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns 5.3.4
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations 5.1 and Legal proceedings section of the Annual Report
2-28 Membership associations 5.1.5 / 7.1.1 / 7.2.3 / 7.2.7
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement 1.1.3
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements 3.1.4 / 3.1.5
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 1.1.4
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 1.1.4
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 3.2.6 / 3.2.7.4 and Note 20. Employee benefits liabilities
in the Annual Report
201-4 Financial assistance received from government 1.1.4.6 and Government grants in Notes to the consolidated financial
statements in the Annual Report
Indirect economic impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 1.1.4
203-2 Significant indirect impacts 1.1.1 / 1.1.4
Local communities 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local 6.3.3.2 / 6.6.1 / 6.6.4 / 6.6.5 / 6.7.4 / Vigilance Plan
communities
Socioeconomic compliance 419-1 Non compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 2.5.3.1 / 3.1.7 / 3.3.7 / 5.1.4.3 / 5.2.7 / 5.3.2 and Legal Proceedings section
in the Annual Report
XIDNEPPA
8
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
Material topics
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-1 Process to determine material topics 1.2.2 / 1.2.3
3-2 List of material topics 1.2.1
Vehicle CO emissions
2
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 2.5 / 2.5.1 / 2.5.2 / 2.5.3 / 2.5.4 / Vigilance Plan
GRI 302: Energy 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organization 2.3
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 2.5.3 / 2.5.3.2.3 / 2.5.3.2.4 / 2.5.3.3 / 2.5.3.4
GRI 305: Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 2.5.4 / 2.7
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 2.5.1 / 2.5.2.2
Industrial and sites carbon footprint
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 2.6.1 / 2.6.2 / 2.6.3.2 / 2.6.3 / 2.6.4 / Vigilance Plan
GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 2.6.3.1 / 2.6.4.2
302-3 Energy intensity 2.6.4.1
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 2.6.3.3 / 2.6.3.4
GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions 2.6.3.1 / 2.6.4.1
305-2 Energy indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions 2.6.3.1 / 2.6.4.1
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2.6.3.1
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 2.6.3.2
Carbon footprint of the supply chain: purchasing and logistics
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 2.7.1 / 2.7.2 / 7.1.4 / Vigilance Plan
GRI 302: Energy 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 2.7.3 / 2.7.4
GRI 305: Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions 2.7
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2.7.3 / 2.7.4
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 2.7.3.2
GRI 308: Supplier environmental 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 7.1.7.3
assessment
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 2.7.3.2 / 7.1.8.1
XIDNEPPA
8
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
Management of Company transformations and social dialogue
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 3.1.1 / 3.1.3 / 3.1.4 / 3.1.5 / 3.1.6 / 3.1.7 / 3.1.8 / Vigilance Plan
GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 3.1.7 / 3.1.8 / 3.2.3
GRI 402: Labor management 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 3.1.4
relations
GRI 407: Freedom of association 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 3.1.4 / 3.1.7 / 7.1.8.1 / 7.2.7
and collective bargaining collective bargaining may be at risk
GRI 412: Human rights assessment* 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 3.1.5 / 3.1.7
assessments
412-2 Employees training on human rights policies or procedures 3.2.8 / 7.2.7
GRI 413: Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 3.1.4 / 3.4.4 / 7.3.4 / 7.3.7
development programs
Attracting and developing all talents
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 3.2.1 / 3.2.2 / 3.2.3 / 3.2.4 / 3.2.5 / 3.2.6 / 3.2.7 / 3.2.8
GRI 202: Market presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 3.2.8
202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community (Global data available) in 3.3.8
GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 3.1.7 / 3.1.8 / 3.2.3
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 3.1.7
or part-time employees
GRI 404: Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 3.2.6
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 3.2.7
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 3.2.7
development reviews
Diversity and equal opportunity
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 3.3.1 / 3.3.2 / 3.3.3 / 3.3.4 / 3.3.5 / 3.3.6 / 3.3.7 / Vigilance Plan
GRI 401: Employment 401-3 Parental leave 3.3.7
GRI 405: Diversity and equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 3.3.7 / 3.3.8
opportunity
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 3.2.8 / 3.3.8 / 5.1.3.1
GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 3.3.7
* Old GRI reference still present due to the GRI update transition.
XIDNEPPA
8
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
Health, safety and well-being in the workplace
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 3.4.1 / 3.4.2 / 3.4.3 / 3.4.4 / 3.4.5 / 3.4.6 / 3.4.7 / Vigilance Plan
GRI 403: Occupational 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 3.4.4
health and safety
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 3.4.6 / 3.4.7
403-3 Occupational health services 3.4.6
403-4 Worker participation, consultation,and communication on occupational health 3.4.5 / 3.4.6
and safety
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 3.4.6 / 3.4.7
403-6 Promotion of worker health 3.4.5 / 3.4.7
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 3.4.4 / 3.4.5
403-9 Work-related injuries 3.4.7 / 3.4.8
403-10 Work-related ill health 3.4.8
Development of new mobility solutions (including autonomous vehicles)
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 2.3.1.2 / 2.4.2 / 2.4.3 / 4.1.1 / 4.1.2 / 4.1.3 / 4.1.4 / 4.1.5 / 4.1.6 / 4.1.7 / Vigilance Plan
Vehicle and service quality - customer satisfaction
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 4.2.1 / 4.2.2 / 4.2.3 / 4.2.4 / 4.2.5 / 4.2.6 / 4.2.6 / 4.2.7
Vehicle Safety
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 4.3.1 / 4.3.3 / 4.3.5 / 4.3.7 / Vigilance Plan
GRI 416: Customer health and 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts on product and service categories 4.3.6 / 4.3.7
safety
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of 4.3.7
products and services
XIDNEPPA
8
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
Ethics in governance and business practices
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 5.1.1 / 5.1.2 / 5.1.5 / 5.1.3 / 5.1.4 / 5.1.5 / 5.1.6 / Vigilance Plan
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 5.1.6 / Section Risk management of the Annual Report
205-2 Communications and training about anti-corruption policies and monopoly practices 3.2.6 / 5.1.4.1 / 7.1.5
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 3.1.7
GRI 206: Anti-competitive behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices Legal proceedings section of the Annual Report
GRI 415: Public policy 415-1 Political contributions 5.1.4.2
Responsible management of personal information
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 5.2.1 / 5.2.2 / 5.2.3 / 5.2.4 / 5.2.5 / 5.2.6 / 5.2.7
GRI 418: Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses 5.2.7
of customer data
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 4.3.1 / 4.3.3 / 4.3.5 / 4.3.7
GRI 416: Customer health and 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts on product and service categories 4.3.6 / 4.3.7
safety
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of 4.3.7
products and services
Responsible information to customers
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 5.3.1 / 5.3.2 / 5.3.3 / 5.3.4 / 5.3.5 / 5.3.6 / 5.3.7
GRI 417: Marketing and labelling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelling 5.3.1
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labelling 5.3.2
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications 5.3.2
Wise use of materials in the vehicle life cycle ( including product recycling)
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 6.1.1 / 6.1.2 / 6.1.3 / 6.1.5 / 6.1.7 / Vigilance Plan
GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 6.1.8
301-2 Recycled input materials used 6.1.7.2
301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 2.7.1 / 2.7.3.3 / 6.1.5 / 6.1.7 / 6.4.4
Vehicle impact on air quality
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 6.2.1 / 6.2.2 / 6.2.3 / 6.2.4 / 6.2.5 / 6.2.6 / 6.2.7 / Vigilance Plan
XIDNEPPA
8
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
Optimization of material cycles in manufacturing processes (including waste)
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 6.4.1 / 6.4.2 / 6.4.3 / 6.4.4.1 / 6.4.4.2.1 / 6.4.5
GRI 301: Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used 6.1.7.2
GRI 306: Waste 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts 6.4.1 / 6.4.3
306-2 Management of significant waste related impacts 6.1.7 / 6.4.4
306-3 Waste generated 6.4.5
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 6.4.4.2.1 / 6.4.4.2.2 / 6.4.5
306 -5 Waste directed to disposal 6.4.4.1 / 6.4.5
Control of industrial discharges and nuisances
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 6.5.1 / 6.5.2 / 6.5.3 / 6.5.4 / 6.5.5 / Vigilance Plan
GRI 305: Emissions 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 6.5.4.1 / 6.5.5
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx) and other significant air emissions 6.5.4.1 / 6.5.5
Sustainable water management in manufacturing
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 6.6.1 / 6.6.1 / 6.6.2 / 6.6.3 / 6.6.4.1
GRI 303: Water and effluents 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 6.6.1 / 6.6.4.1 / 6.6.4.2 / 6.6.5
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 6.6.4.1 / 6.6.5.6 / 6.6.5.7
303-3 Water withdrawal 6.6.1 / 6.6.4.1 / 6.6.5.1 / 6.6.5.4
303-4 Water discharge 6.6.1 / 6.6.4.1 / 6.6.5.2 / 6.6.5.4
303-5 Water consumption 6.6.1 / 6.6.4.1 / 6.6.5.3
Protection of biodiversity
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 6.7.1 / 6.7.2 / 6.7.3 / 6.7.4
GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas, 6.7.5
and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas
304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 6.7.4 / 6.7.5
304-3 Habitats protected or restored 6.7.4.1 / 6.7.5
XIDNEPPA
8
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
Responsible purchasing practices (including local sourcing development) to support the Company’s development in host territories
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 7.1.1 / 7.1.2 / 7.1.3 / 7.1.4 / 7.1.5 / 7.1.6 / 7.1.7 / Vigilance Plan
GRI 412: Human rights assessment* 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights 7.1.5 / 7.1.7
clauses or that underwent human rights screening
GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 414-1 New supplier that were screened using social criteria 7.1.5 / 7.1.7.3
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 7.1.7.3 / 7.1.8 / 7.2.6 / 7.2.8
GRI 204: Procurement practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 7.1.8
Human rights in the supply chain
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 7.1.7 / 7.2.1 / 7.2.3 / 7.2.4 / 7.2.5 / Vigilance Plan
GRI 407: Freedom of association 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 7.1.8 / 7.2.3 / 7.2.7
and collective bargaining collective bargaining may be at risk
GRI 408: Child labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 7.1.8 / 7.2.3 / 7.2.7
GRI 409: Forced or compulsory 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced and 7.1.8 / 7.2.3 / 7.2.7
labor compulsory labor
GRI 410: Security practices 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures 3.1.5
compulsory labor
GRI 411: Rights of indigenous peoples 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples 3.1.7
GRI 412: Human rights assessment* 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 7.2.8
assessments
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 7.2.7
412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights 7.2.1 / 7.2.6 / 7.2.7
clauses or that underwent human rights screening
GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 7.1.5 / 7.1.7.3
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 7.1.7.3 / 7.1.8 / 7.2.5 / 7.2.6 / 7.2.8
Philanthropic actions to support communities
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 7.3.5 / 7.3.4 / 7.3.5 / 7.3.6 / 7.3.3 / 7.3.6 / 7.3.7
GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 7.3.6
203-2 Significant indirect impacts 7.3.6
GRI 413: Local communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments and 7.3.4 / 7.3.7
development programs
* Old GRI reference still present due to the GRI update transition.
XIDNEPPA
8
8.2.5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES INDEX WITH RELATED GRI CODES
AREAS PRINCIPLES GRI CODES SECTION NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S)
1. Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 410-1 3.1.5 / 7.1.5
human rights 411-1 3.1.7
412-1* 3.1.5 / 3.1.7
412-2* 3.2.8 / 7.2.7
413-1 3.1.4 / 3.4.4 / 7.3.4 / 7.3.7
413-2 6.3.3.2 / 6.6.1 / 6.6.4 / 6.6.5 / 6.7.4 / Vigilance Plan
2. Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 412-2* 3.2.8 / 7.2.7
412-3* 7.1.5 / 7.1.7
414-1 7.1.5 / 7.1.7.3
414-2 7.1.7.3 / 7.1.8 / 7.2.5 / 7.2.6 / 7.2.8 / Vigilance Plan
2. Labor standards 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association 2-30 3.1.4 / 3.1.5
and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 402-1 3.1.4
407-1 7.1.8 / 7.2.3 / 7.2.7
4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced compulsory labour 409-1 7.1.8 / 7.2.3 / 7.2.7
5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor 408-1 7.1.8 / 7.2.3 / 7.2.7
6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of 2-7 1.1.1 / 3.1.7 / 3.3.8
employment and occupation 2-8 3.1.7 / 3.3.8
202-1 3.2.8
202-2 3.3.8
401-1 3.1.7 / 3.1.8 / 3.2.3
401-3 3.3.7
404-3 3.2.7.1
405-1 3.3.7 / 3.3.8
405-2 3.2.8 / 3.3.8 / 5.1.3.1
406-1 3.3.7
3. The environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 201-2 1.1.4
301-1 6.1.8
302-1 2.6.3.1 / 2.6.4.2
303-1 6.6.4.1 / 6.6.5
305-1 2.6.3.1 / 2.6.4.1
305-2 2.6.3.1 / 2.6.4.1
305-3 2.5.4 / 2.7
305-6 6.5.4.1 / 6.5.5
305-7 6.5.4.1 / 6.5.5
* Old GRI reference still present due to the GRI update transition.
XIDNEPPA
8
AREAS PRINCIPLES GRI CODES SECTION NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S)
3. The environment 8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmentally- friendly 301-1 6.1.8
301-2 6.1.7.4 / 6.4.4.2.1
301-3 2.7.1 / 2.7.3.3 / 6.1.5/ 6.1.7 / 6.4.4
302-1 2.6.3.1 / 2.6.4.2
302-2 2.3 / 2.7.3 / 2.7.4
302-3 2.6.4.1
302-4 2.6.3.3 / 2.6.3.4
302-5 2.5.3 / 2.5.3.2.3 / 2.5.3.2.4 / 2.5.3.3 / 2.5.3.4
303-1 6.6.4.1 / 6.6.5
303-2 6.6.4.1
303-3 6.6.1 / 6.6.4.1 / 6.6.4.2 / 6.6.5
304-1 6.7.5
304-2 6.7.4 / 6.7.5
304-3 6.7.4.1 / 6.7.5
305-1 2.6.3.1 / 2.6.4.1
305-2 2.6.3.1 / 2.6.4.1
305-3 2.5./ 2.7
305-4 2.6.3.1 / 2.7.3 / 2.7.4
305-5 2.5.1 / 2.5.2.2
305-6 6.5.4.1 / 6.5.5
305-7 6.5.4.1 / 6.5.5
306-1 6.4.1 / 6.4.3
306-2 6.1.7 / 6.4.3.2 / 6.4.4.1 / 6.4.4.2
306-3 6.4.5
306-4 6.4.4.2.2 / 6.4.5
306-5 6.4.5
2-27 Legal proceedings section of the Annual Report
308-1 7.1.7.3
308-2 2.7.3.2 / 7.1.8.1
9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 302-4 2.6.3.3 / 2.6.3.4
friendly technologies 302-5 2.5.3 / 2.5.3.2.3 / 2.5.3.2.4 / 2.5.3.3 / 2.5.3.4
305-5 2.5.1 / 2.5.2.2
4. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion 2-23 2.4.2
and bribery 2-26 5.3.4
205-2 3.2.6 / 5.1.4.1 / 7.1.5
205-3 3.1.7
413-2 6.3.3.2 / 6.6.1 / 6.6.4 / 6.6.5 / 6.7.4 / Vigilance Plan
415-1 5.1.4.2
XIDNEPPA
8
8.2.6 DPEF
The DPEF index declined below sets out the requirements of Articles L. 225-102-1 and R. 225-105 et seq. of the French
Commercial Code which transpose the Directive 2014/95/EU on non-financial reporting, in force since the 2018 financial
year and demand to provide Non-Financial Information (NFI) (“Declaration de Performance Extra Financière” in French).
The requirements of Articles L. 225-102-1 and R. 225-105 et seq. of the French Commercial Code are classified below,
accordingly - three types of icon1:
■ DPEF.A for Stellantis business model;
■ DPEF.B for the description of the main Corporate Social Responsibility risks inherent in Stellantis activity;
■ DPEF.X for the other indicators, including three indicators, with anticipation to the future Decree of application to Law
No. 2018 -938 of October 30, 2018–art 55 for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sectors and
healthy, sustainable and accessible food for all, and Law No. 2018-898 of October 23, 2018 for the fight against fraud.
They are featured at the end of the index and have modified article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code.
CODIFICATION OF CSR REPORT DEGREE
EXPECTED THE DPEF INDICATORS (RELEVANT SECTIONS) OF RESPONSE*
The Company’s business model DPEF.A 1.1.1 FULL
Main risks inherent in the Company’s activity DPEF.B 1.2.1 / 2.3 / 3.1.3 / 3.2.3 / 3.3.3 / 3.4.3 / 4.1.3 / 4.2.3 / 4.3.3 / FULL
5.1.3 / 5.2.3 / 5.3.3 / 6.1.3 / 6.2.3 / 6.4.3 / 6.5.3 / 6.6.3 /
6.7.3 / 7.1.3 / 7.2.3 / 7.3.3
1° SOCIAL INFORMATION
a) Employment
Total workforce DPEF.1.a 1.1.2 / 3.1.8 / 3.3.8 FULL
Employees by gender DPEF.1.b 3.1.8 / 3.2.8 / 3.3.8 FULL
Employees by age DPEF.1.c 3.1.8 / 3.2.8 / 3.3.8 FULL
Employees by geographical segment DPEF.1.d 3.1.8 / 3.2.8 / 3.3.8 / 3.4.8 FULL
Hirings DPEF.2.a 3.1.7 / 3.1.8 FULL
Dismissals DPEF.2.b 3.1.8 FULL
Compensation and changes therein DPEF.3 3.2.8 FULL
1 Déclaration de Performance Extra-Financière (DPEF).
* The reporting status indicates a response by Stellantis to each of the 45 DPEF topics and the coverage rate for this response among the relevant subsidiaries.
XIDNEPPA
8
CODIFICATION OF CSR REPORT DEGREE
EXPECTED THE DPEF INDICATORS (RELEVANT SECTIONS) OF RESPONSE*
b) Work arrangements
Organisation of working hours DPEF.4 3.1.7 / 3.3.7 / 3.3.8 / 3.4.7 FULL
Absenteeism DPEF.5 3.4.8 FULL
c) Health and safety
Health and safety conditions in the workplace DPEF.6 3.4 FULL
Workplace accidents, particularly their frequency and severity, along with DPEF.7 3.4.8 FULL
occupational illnesses
d) Industrial relations
Organisation of social dialogue, especially procedures for informing, DPEF.8 3.1 FULL
consulting and negotiating with personnel
Summary of labor agreements, in particular relating to workplace health DPEF.9 3.1.1 / 3.2.7 / 3.3.5 / 3.3.7 FULL
and safety
e) Training
Training policies put into practice, specifically those relating to DPEF.10 Introduction 2 / 3.2.5 / 3.2.6 / 3.2.7 / 3.3.7 / 3.4.7 / 4.3.7 / FULL
environmental protection expected 5.1.7 / 6.3.3.2 / 7.1.7.1
Total number of hours of training DPEF.11 3.2.8 FULL
f) Non-discrimination
Measures taken to ensure gender equality DPEF.12 1.1.4 / 3.3.5 / 3.3.6 / 3.3.7 / 3.3.8 FULL
Measures taken to ensure the hiring and integration of persons with DPEF.13 3.3.5 / 3.3.6 / 3.3.7 / 3.3.8 FULL
disabilities
Anti-discrimination policy DPEF.14 3.3.5 / 5.1.5.1 / 7.1.5 / 7.2.5 FULL
2° ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION
a) General environmental policy
The organization of the Company so as to take environmental questions DPEF.15 2.3 / 2.4 / 2.5 / 2.6 / 2.7 / 6.1 / 6.2 / 6.3 / 6.4 / 6.5 / 6.6 / 6.7 FULL
into consideration and, where appropriate, carrying out environmental
assessment or certification initiatives
Resources committed to preventing environmental risks and pollution DPEF.16 2.5.1 / 2.5.2 / 2.6.1 / 2.6.2 / 2.7.1 / 2.7.2 / 6.1.5 / 6.1.6 / 6.2.5 / 6.2.6 / FULL
6.3.2 / 6.3.3 / 6.4.2 / 6.5.2 / 6.6.2 / 6.7.2
The amount of the provisions and warranties made for environmental risks, DPEF.17 note 21. Provisions of the Annual Report (page 326) FULL
provided this information is not of a nature that might be seriously adverse
to the Company in a current legal dispute
* The reporting status indicates a response by Stellantis to each of the 45 DPEF topics and the coverage rate for this response among the relevant subsidiaries.
XIDNEPPA
8
CODIFICATION OF CSR REPORT DEGREE
EXPECTED THE DPEF INDICATORS (RELEVANT SECTIONS) OF RESPONSE*
b) Pollution
Measures to prevent, reduce or repair emissions into the air, water or DPEF.18 6.5.4 / 6.5.5 / 6.6.4 / 6.6.5 / 6.7.4 / 6.7.5 FULL
ground that seriously affect the environment
Handling all types of pollution specific to an activity, in particular sound and DPEF.19 6.5.4 / 6.5.5 / 6.6.4 / 6.6.5 / 6.7.4 / 6.7.5 FULL
light pollution
c) The circular economy
I) Waste prevention and management FULL
Measures to prevent, recycle, reuse and recover or eliminate waste DPEF.20 6.1.7 / 6.4.4 / 6.4.5 FULL
Actions to combat food waste DPEF.21 7.3.7 FULL
II) Sustainable use of resources
Water consumption and sourcing in light of local constraints DPEF.22 6.6.4.1 / 6.6.4.2 FULL
Consumption of raw materials and measures taken to use them more DPEF.23 6.1.7 / 6.1.8 FULL
efficiently
Consumption of energy, measures taken to improve energy efficiency and DPEF.24 1.1.4.6 / 2.1 / 2.2 / 2.5.2 / 2.5.3 / 2.5.4 / 2.6.3 / 2.6.4 / 2.7.3 / 2.7.4 FULL
use of renewable energy
Use of land DPEF.25 1.1.4.6 / 2.6 / 2.7.3.2 / Introduction 6 / 6.1.3 / 6.1.4 / 6.1.5 / 6.1.6 / FULL
6.1.7.6 / 6.3 / 6.4.2 / 6.5
d) Climate change
Significant greenhouse gas emissions due to the Company’s activity, DPEF.26 2.3 / 2.5.4.1 / 2.5.4.3 / 2.6.3.1 / 2.6.4.1 FULL
notably through the use of goods and services it produces
Measures taken to adapt to the consequences of climate change DPEF.27 2.5.2.1 / 2.5.2.2 / 2.5.3 / 2.5.3.2.2 / 2.6 / 2.7.3.1 FULL
The voluntary medium and long-term targets set to reduce greenhouse gas DPEF.28 2.2 FULL
emissions and the relevant resources implemented
e) Protection of biodiversity
Measures taken to preserve or restore biodiversity DPEF.29 5.3.7 / 6.7.4 / 6.7.5 FULL
3° SOCIETAL INFORMATION
a) Corporate sustainable development commitment
The impact of the Company’s activity on employment and local DEPF.30 1.3.1 / 3.1.8 / 3.3.8 / 7.1.1 FULL
development
The impact of the Company’s activity on neighboring or local residents DEPF.31 6.3.3.1 / 6.5.1 / 6.5.3 / 6.6.3 / 6.7.3 / 6.7.4.1 / 7.3.7.2 / 6.5.4.2 FULL
* The reporting status indicates a response by Stellantis to each of the 45 DPEF topics and the coverage rate for this response among the relevant subsidiaries.
XIDNEPPA
8
CODIFICATION OF CSR REPORT DEGREE
EXPECTED THE DPEF INDICATORS (RELEVANT SECTIONS) OF RESPONSE*
Relations with stakeholders and means of dialogue with them DEPF.32 1.1.3 / 1.1.4 / 1.2.2 / 1.2.4 / 1.3.1 / 1.3.3 / introduction 2/ 2.3 / 2.5.3.2 / FULL
3.1.2 / 3.1.5 / 3.1.6 / 3.1.7 / 3.2.6 / 3.4.1 / introduction 4 / 4.1.1 / 4.2.6 /
4.3.7 Introduction 5 / 5.1.1 / 5.1.3 / 5.1.5.1 / 5.1.5.3 / 5.1.5.4 / 5.2.7 /
5.3.1 / 5.3.5 / 5.3.7 / 6.1.3 / 6.7.1 / 6.7.3.2 / 7.1.1 / 7.1.3 / 7.1.4 / 7.1.5 /
7.1.6 / 7.1.7.2 / 7.2.1 / 7.2.3 / 7.2.5
Support, partnerships and philanthropy provided DEPF.33 Message from the Chairman / 1.1.1 / 1.1.4 / 1.3.1 / 1.3.3 / 2.1 / 2.2 / FULL
2.3.1 / 2.4.2 / 2.5.2 / 2.5.3.2.2 / 2.5.3.2.3 / 2.5.3.2.3 / 2.7.3 / 3.1.5 / 3.1.7 /
3.3.7 / 3.4.1 / 3.4.7 / 4.1.1 / 4.1.3.2 / 4.1.5 / 4.1.6 / 4.1.7 / 4.2.7 / 4.3.6 /
4.3.7 / 5.1.3 / 5.2.1 / 5.3.6 / 5.3.7 / 6.1.1 / 6.1.3 / 6.1.5 / 6.1.6 / 6.1.7 /
6.2.7.2 / 6.6.4.2 / 6.7.4 / 7.1 / 7.2.1 / 7.2.4 / 7.2.5 / 7.2.7 / 7.3
b) Subcontractors and suppliers
Consideration given to social and environmental issues in procurement DEPF.34 1.3.1 / 2.5.1 / 2.6.1 / 3.1.5 / 3.2.5 / 3.3.5 / 3.4.5 / 4.1.5 / 4.2.5 / 4.3.5 / 5.1.5 / FULL
policies 5.2.5 / 5.3.5 / 6.1.5 / 6.2.5 / 6.3.2 / 7.1.5 / 7.2.5 / 7.3.5
Inclusion of social and environmental responsibility in subcontractor and DPEF.35 7.1.5 / 7.1.6 / 7.1.7.1 / 7.1.7.2 / 7.1.7.3 / 7.2.3 / 7.2.5 / 7.2.6 / 7.2.7 FULL
supplier relationships
c) Fair operating practices
Measures taken benefiting the health and safety of consumers DEPF.36 2.5.1 / 2.5.2 / 2.5.3 / 2.5.4 / 4.3.4 / 4.3.5 / 4.3.6 / 4.3.7 / 6.1.3 / 6.1.4 / 6.1.5 / FULL
6.1.6 / 6.1.7 / 6.1.8 / 6.2.4 / 6.2.5 / 6.2.6 / 6.2.7
Anti-corruption actions DPEF.37 3.1.7 / 3.2.8 / 5.1.3 / 5.1.5.2 / 5.1.6 / 5.1.7 / 7.1.1 / 7.1.5 / 7.1.8 / 7.2.1 FULL
4° INFORMATION ABOUT INITIATIVES TO PROTECT HUMAN RIGHTS
a) Promotion and observance of the core conventions of the International Labor organization:
With respect for freedom of association and the right to collective DPEF.38 3.1.4 / 3.1.5 / 3.1.7 / 3.1.8 / 3.3.4 / 3.3.5 / 7.1 / 7.2 FULL
bargaining
Eliminating discrimination in terms of hiring and occupation DPEF.39 1.1.4.3 / 3.1.5 / 3.1.6 / 3.1.7 / 3.1.8 / 3.2.5 / 3.2.6 / 3.2.7 / 3.2.8 / 3.3.1 / FULL
3.3.5 / 3.3.6 / 3.3.7 / 3.3.8 / 7.1.5 / 7.2.5 / 7.3
Eliminating forced or compulsory labor expected DPEF.40 3.1.7 / 7 Introduction/ 7.1.1 / 7.1.5 / 7.1.8 / 7.2.1 / 7.2.3 / 7.2. / 7.2.7 / 7.2.8 FULL
The effective abolition of child labor DPEF.41 3.1.7 / 7 Introduction / 7.1.1 / 7.1.5 / 7.1.8 / 7.2.1 / 7.2.3 / 7.2.5 / 7.2.7 / 7.2.8 FULL
b) Other actions undertaken to protect human rights DPEF.42 3.3.5 / 3.3.7 FULL
Most recent additional requirements included in article L. 225-102-1 modified in autumn 2018
Fighting food insecurity DPEF.43 7.3.7.1 FULL
Respect for animal welfare DPEF.44 7.1.5 / 7.2.5 FULL
Fighting tax evasion DPEF.45 5.1.5.3 FULL
* The reporting status indicates a response by Stellantis to each of the 45 DPEF topics and the coverage rate for this response among the relevant subsidiaries.
XIDNEPPA
8
8.3 Auditor’s report GRI 2-5 GRI 2-25 DJSI 2.1.2
The Company decided to obtain an independent auditor’s opinion on the truthfulness of the selection of the consolidated
social, societal and environmental information presented in the CSR Report. The firm Grant Thornton was appointed as
independent auditor. The conclusions of this report are presented below.
ASSURANCE REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
To the Shareholders,
Our conclusions
We have examined a selection of KPIs included in the accompanying Corporate Social Responsibility report (hereafter:
CSR report) for the year 2022 of Stellantis N.V based in Amsterdam. Our examination is aimed to obtain limited assurance
for a selection of KPIs (hereafter: the limited assurance KPIs), and reasonable assurance for an additional selection of KPIs
(hereafter: reasonable assurance KPIs) . For more information refer to Appendix
Our limited assurance conclusion
Based on our review nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the limited assurance KPIs are not
prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria as included in the section “reporting criteria” of
this assurance report.
Our reasonable assurance opinion
In our opinion the reasonable assurance KPIs are prepared, in all materials aspects, in accordance with the reporting
criteria as included in the section “reporting criteria” of this assurance report.
Other information
Based on our examination, we conclude that the other information included in the CSR Report is consistent with the
selected KPI’s.
Basis for our conclusions
We performed our examination in accordance with Dutch law, including Dutch Standard 3000A ‘Assurance engagements
other than audits or reviews of historical financial information’. Our responsibilities under this standard are further
described in the section ‘Our responsibilities for the examination of the limited assurance KPI’s and reasonable assurance
KPI’s’ of our report.
XIDNEPPA
8
We are independent of Stellantis N.V in accordance with the ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants
bij assurance-opdrachten’ (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence)
and other relevant independence regulations in The Netherlands. Furthermore we have complied with the ‘Verordening
gedrags- en beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA, Dutch code of ethics).
We believe that the assurance evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
conclusions.
Reporting criteria
The reporting criteria used for the preparation of the selected KPIs are the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the applied supplemental reporting criteria as disclosed in section ‘8 Appendix’ of
the CSR report ‘Methodology and scope of Non-Financial Information’.
The absence of an established practice on which to draw, to evaluate and measure non-financial information allows for
different, but acceptable, measurement techniques and can affect comparability between entities and over time.
Consequently, the sustainability information needs to be read and understood together with the reporting criteria used.
Materiality
Based on our professional judgement we determined materiality levels for the selected KPI’s. When evaluating our
materiality levels, we have taken into account quantitative and qualitative considerations as well as the relevance of
information for both stakeholders and the company.
Scope of the group examination
Stellantis N.V is the parent company of a group of entities. The selected KPIs incorporate the consolidated information of
this group of entities to the extent as specified in ‘8. Appendix’ in the CSR report.
Our examination consisted of both assurance procedures at corporate (consolidated) level and at site level. Our
selection of sites in scope of our review procedures and our audit procedures are primarily based on the site’s individual
contribution to the consolidated information. Furthermore, our selection of sites considered relevant reporting risks
and geographical spread.
By performing our review procedures and audit procedures at site level, together with additional review procedures and
audit procedures at corporate level, we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate assurance evidence about
the group’s selected KPI’s to provide a conclusion about the selected limited assurance KPI’s and the selected reasonable
assurance KPI’s
XIDNEPPA
8
It is not our responsibility to comment on:
■ the entity’s compliance with other applicable legal and regulatory requirements;
■ the compliance of products and services with the applicable regulations.
Responsibilities of the management board for the selected KPIs
The management board is responsible for the preparation of reliable and adequate KPI’s in accordance with the reporting
criteria as included in the section ‘reporting criteria’, including the identification of stakeholders and the definition of
material matters.
The management board is also responsible for selecting and applying the reporting criteria and for determining that these
reporting criteria are suitable for the legitimate information needs of stakeholders, taking into account applicable laws and
regulations related to reporting. The choices made by the management board regarding the scope of the KPI’s and the
reporting policy are summarized in section ‘8. Appendix’ of the CSR report.
Furthermore, the management board is responsible for such internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the
preparation of the KPI’s that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Our responsibilities for the examination of the limited assurance KPI’s and reasonable
assurance KPI’s
Our responsibility is to plan and perform our examination in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate
assurance evidence for our conclusions.
Our examination performed to obtain limited assurance on the limited assurance KPIs differ in nature and timing and are
less extent as compared to reasonable assurance engagements. The level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance
engagement is therefore substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable
assurance engagement been performed.
Our examination to obtain reasonable assurance on the reasonable assurance KPI’s has been performed with a high, but
not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all material errors and fraud.
We apply the ‘Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen’ (NVKS, Regulations for Quality management systems) and
accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding
compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and other relevant legal and regulatory requirements.
Our examination included among others:
■ Performing an analysis of the external environment and obtaining an understanding of relevant social themes and
issues, and the characteristics of the Company;
■ Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used, their consistent application and related disclosures in the
selected KPIs;
XIDNEPPA
8
■ Obtaining an understanding of the reporting processes for the selected KPIs, including obtaining a general understanding
of internal control relevant to our procedures;
■ Identifying areas of the selected KPIs with a higher risk of misleading or unbalanced information or material
misstatements, whether due to fraud or error.
■ Designing and performing further assurance procedures aimed at determining the plausibility of the selected KPIs
responsive to this risk analysis. These procedures consisted amongst others of:
■ Interviewing management and relevant staff at corporate and local level responsible for the sustainability strategy,
policy and results;
■ Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the information for, carrying out internal control procedures on,
and consolidating the data for the selected KPIs;
● Determining the nature and extent of our procedures for the group components and locations. Based thereon we selected
the components and locations to visit on site and virtually. The visits to the selected sites1 are aimed at, on a local level,
validating source data and evaluating the design and implementation of internal controls and validation procedures.
● Obtaining assurance information that the selected KPIs reconcile with underlying records of the company;
● Assessing relevant internal and external documentation;
● Performing an analytical review of the data and trends in the information
■ Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the selected KPIs;
■ Considering whether the selected KPIs as a whole, including the disclosures, reflects the purpose of the reporting
criteria used.
25 April 2023
Grant Thornton France Grant Thornton Netherlands
Vincent Frambourt Max van Rijssel
Partner Partner of Grant Thornton Accountants en Adviseurs B.V.
1 Industrial plants audited: Windsor Assembly Plant (Canada, Warren Truck Assembly Plant (Michigan, USA), Jefferson North Assembly Plant
(Michigan, USA), Trenton South Engine Plant (Michigan, USA), Warren Stamping plant (Michigan, USA), Kokomo Casting Plant (Indiana, USA), Indiana
Transmission Plant I (Indiana, USA), Kokomo Transmission Plant (Indiana, USA), Pomigliano d'Arco Assembly Plant (Italy), Toluca Assembly Plant
(Mexico), Cast Iron Foundry - Teksid Hierro de Mexico (Mexico), Gurun (Malaysia), Kaiserslautern (Germany), Luton IBC (UK), Mangualde (Portugal),
Palomar (Argentina), Rennes (France), Metz (France), Sevelnord (France), Trémery (France), Vesoul (France), Velizy (France).
XIDNEPPA
8
Appendix
CSR ISSUES LIST OF SELECTED KPIS LIMITED ASSURANCE LIST OF ADDITIONAL SELECTED KPIS REASONABLE ASSURANCE
1. Vehicle CO emissions ▪ Sales-weighted average passenger fleet fuel economy, by ▪ Percentage of nameplates with electrified offering (focus on US and Europe)
2
region and CO 2 emissions ▪ Share of LEV in sales mix (focus on US and Europe)
2. Industrial and sites carbon footprint / ▪ Overall energy consumption
▪ Total GHG emissions (scope 1 & 2)
▪ Total decarbonized electricity and total renewable electricity used (and % on total
electricity consumed)
3. Carbon footprint of the supply chain ▪ Suppliers' average environmental performance measured by ▪ Share of annual purchased value from suppliers with CO2 reduction targets compliant
third party (Ecovadis) with the Paris Climate Agreement
▪ GHG emissions per type of shipment and per mode of ▪ Percentage of suppliers that participated in the CDP Supply Chain Program
transport ▪ GHG emissions reduction (%) (GWP in scope 1,2,3 - 1,5°C scenario - Global)
4. Management of Company transformation ▪ Total number of new employee hires ▪ Total headcount
and social dialogue ▪ Turnover (%) (excluding negotiated departures)
▪ Leavers on permanent contract
▪ Number of fixed-term contract converted into permanent contract
▪ Percentage of countries covered by collective agreements
5. Attracting and Developing new Talents ▪ Number of employees covered by long-term incentives ▪ Total number of employees trained
▪ Percentage of technical engineering reskill/upskilling ▪ Access rate to training
▪ Total number of training hours
6. Diversity and Equal opportunity ▪ Percentage of women in leadership position, N1-N2-N3 ▪ Workforce gender balance (% of women)
▪ Workforce diversity (number of nationalities)
7. Health, safety and wellbeing in the ▪ Occupational illness (no. and frequency rate) - (breakdown by ▪ Lost-time injury frequency rate
workplace geographic area) ▪ Severity rate
▪ Absenteeism (number and rate of absenteeism) – breakdown by ▪ Number of serious injuries and fatalities (by geographic area, by employee categories)
geographic area, by employee categories, by category of absence ▪ No. work-related Injuries - breakdown by global no., by geographic area, by type of accident
8. Development of new mobility solutions / ▪ Percentage of Low Emission Vehicles (below 50g CO2) infleeted during the year for
car sharing, short & medium term rental, subscription, long term rental (lease)
9. Vehicle & service quality - Customer ▪ 3 months in service repairs rate: percentage of reduction vs ▪ Certification to product quality standards (e.g., ISO 9001 or IATF16949) - (% of plants
satisfaction reference year 2021 certified)
▪ Customer satisfaction: Net Promoter Scores (NPS) (New vehicle sales + after-sales, in
base 100)
10. Vehicle safety / ▪ Number of recall campaigns
▪ Number of initial recall notices and number of vehicles concerned
XIDNEPPA
8
CSR ISSUES LIST OF SELECTED KPIS LIMITED ASSURANCE LIST OF ADDITIONAL SELECTED KPIS REASONABLE ASSURANCE
11. Ethics in business and governance ▪ Number of employees trained on Ethics policies and procedures ▪ Number of days to provide a personalized first answer on reported concerns
practices o/w Code of Conduct, and relevant compliance topics regarding potential violations of the Code of Conduct
▪ Annual total monetary spending including internal costs for
political organizations, lobbyists or lobbying organizations and
trade associations
▪ World Most Ethical (WME) Company status with Ethisphere
12. Responsible management of personal / ▪ Percentage of complaints raised by Supervisory Authorities for customer privacy/
information data protection infringements handled within 1 month
13. Responsible information to customer / ▪ Number of convictions of non-compliance concerning product and service
information and labelling or marketing communications
14. Wise use of materials in the vehicle ▪ Availability of solutions for Responsible Life Cycle ▪ Number of nameplates/models on which an LCA have been performed
life cycle Management of High Voltage Batteries
15. Vehicle impact on air quality / ▪ Percentage of nameplates with ZEV offering (focus on US and Europe)
▪ Share of ZEV in sales mix (focus on US and Europe)
16. Optimization of material cycles in ▪ Percentage of plants with Zero Waste Sent to Landfill ▪ Total waste generated
manufacturing processes ▪ Total weight of waste by type
▪ Waste normalized/vehicle produced
▪ Percentage of waste recovered out of total waste generated
17. Control of industrial discharges and ▪ Total industrial emissions of Nitrogen Oxides (NO x), Sulfur ▪ VOC emissions from paint shops normalized in g/m2 painted and kg/vehicle produced
nuisances Oxidex (SO 2) and Dust (Particulate Matter) in tons base on ▪ Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) emissions (leakage)
direct fuel consumption
18. Sustainable water management in ▪ Number of plants located in water stressed areas and volume ▪ Total water withdrawal, and by source
manufacturing of water withdrawn and discharged from plants in water ▪ Total water withdrawn normalized in m3/vehicle produced
stressed areas
19. Protection of biodiversity ▪ Number of plants located < 5 km from a nature protected area ▪ Percentage of plants that have done a RENATU evaluation and implemented a
biodiversity projects
20. Responsible purchasing practices ▪ Purchase value of evaluated suppliers ▪ CSR scores of Stellantis suppliers assessed by Ecovadis
▪ Percentage of supply chain value ▪ Gap between average CSR score of Stellantis suppliers and average score of all
suppliers assessed by the same external third party
21. Human rights in the supply chain / ▪ Average Human Rights scores of Stellantis Tier-1 suppliers assessed by independent
third party
▪ Assessed or audited suppliers for which corrective action plans have been developed
for Human Rights issues
22. Philanthropic actions to support ▪ Total number of philanthropic projects ▪ Total monetary value of the company's philanthropic contributions during the year
communities
XIDNEPPA
8
8.4 Safe Harbor Statement
This document contains forward-looking statements. In particular, statements regarding future financial performance and
the Company’s expectations as to the achievement of certain targeted metrics, including revenues, industrial free cash flows,
vehicle shipments, capital investments, research and development costs and other expenses at any future date or for any future
period are forward-looking statements. These statements may include terms such as “may”, “will”, “expect”, “could”, “should”,
“intend”, “estimate”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “remain”, “on track”, “design”, “target”, “objective”, “goal”, “forecast”, “projection”,
“outlook”, “prospects”, “plan”, or similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Rather,
they are based on the Company’s current state of knowledge, future expectations and projections about future events and
are by their nature, subject to inherent risks and uncertainties. They relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or
may not occur or exist in the future and, as such, undue reliance should not be placed on them.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors,
including: the Company’s ability to launch new products successfully and to maintain vehicle shipment volumes; changes in
the global financial markets, general economic environment and changes in demand for automotive products, which is subject
to cyclicality; the Company’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger; the Company’s ability to offer innovative,
attractive products and to develop, manufacture and sell vehicles with advanced features including enhanced electrification,
connectivity and autonomous-driving characteristics; the continued impact of unfilled semiconductor orders; the continued
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; the Company’s ability to successfully manage the industry-wide transition from internal
combustion engines to full electrification; the Company’s ability to produce or procure electric batteries with competitive
performance, cost and at required volumes; a significant malfunction, disruption or security breach compromising information
technology systems or the electronic control systems contained in the Company’s vehicles; exchange rate fluctuations, interest
rate changes, credit risk and other market risks; increases in costs, disruptions of supply or shortages of raw materials, parts,
components and systems used in the Company’s vehicles; changes in local economic and political conditions; changes in trade
policy, the imposition of global and regional tariffs or tariffs targeted to the automotive industry, the enactment of tax reforms
or other changes in tax laws and regulations; the level of government economic incentives available to support the adoption
of battery electric vehicles; various types of claims, lawsuits, governmental investigations and other contingencies, including
product liability and warranty claims and environmental claims, investigations and lawsuits; material operating expenditures in
relation to compliance with environmental, health and safety regulations; the level of competition in the automotive industry,
which may increase due to consolidation and new entrants; the Company’s ability to attract and retain experienced management
and employees; exposure to shortfalls in the funding of the Company’s defined benefit pension plans; the Company’s ability
to provide or arrange for access to adequate financing for dealers and retail customers and associated risks related to the
establishment and operations of financial services companies; the Company’s ability to access funding to execute its business
plan; the Company’s ability to realize anticipated benefits from joint venture arrangements; disruptions arising from political,
social and economic instability; risks associated with the Company’s relationships with employees, dealers and suppliers; the
Company’s ability to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting; developments in labor and industrial relations
and developments in applicable labor laws; earthquakes or other disasters; and other risks and uncertainties.
Any forward-looking statements contained in this document speak only as of the date of this document and the Company
disclaims any obligation to update or revise publicly forward-looking statements. Further information concerning the Company
and its businesses, including factors that could materially affect the Company’s financial results, is included in the Company’s
reports and filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and AFM.
XIDNEPPA
8
8.5 About this report
Name of the organization, ownership and legal form GRI 2-1
Stellantis N.V.
Amsterdam, The Netherlands
Netherlands Chamber of Commerce: 60372958
Location of Headquarters GRI 2-1
Taurusavenue 1,
2132LS Hoofddorp
The Netherlands
Measured by operational indicators, Stellantis sustainable development performance is the subject of annual reporting
presented in this report.
Reported period GRI 2-3
The information and indicators in this report concern the year 2022 and were closed at the end of the period on December
31, 2022 (except for any information or indicators listed in the methodological note ).
Depending the situation, data presented were consolidated or compiled. Consolidation has been preferred as much as
possible, while explanations were provided when compilation has been used.
Stellantis intends to report on the future with a relevant history on the changes or the calculation method associated
with each indicator. The history will be for three years whenever possible, and could periodically be more than three years
when it corresponds to a reference year (for example, before a policy or action plan has been set up).
Reporting Cycle GRI 2-3
The CSR report is published annually.
Date of publication GRI 2-3
This CSR Report, covering financial year 2022, was published on April 28 2023.
XIDNEPPA
8
Assurance GRI 2-5
This Report has been submitted to assurance by an external independent audit firm, Grant Thornton, a simplified joint
stock company of chartered accountancy and statutory, in accordance with the criteria established in the International
Standard on Assurance Engagement ISAE 3000 (Revised) - Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of
Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000 Revised), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board
for limited assurance engagements.
Grant Thornton is officially authorized to conduct ISAE 3000 assurance audits. The statement of assurance describing the
activities carried out and the expression of opinion is provided section 8.4.
Contact GRI 2-3
Your opinion is important to us. For questions and comments regarding the report write to:
Stellantis NV,
Taurusavenue 1,
2132LS Hoofddorp
The Netherlands