GROUNDWORK
TESCO COMMUNITY GRANTS
Celebrating £100m of grants for
UK communities
About Tesco Community Grants About Groundwork
The Tesco Community Grants scheme support Tesco Community Grants is managed by
thousands of local community projects and good Groundwork, working in partnership with
causes across the UK every year. greenspace scotland. Groundwork is a charity
working locally and nationally to transform lives in
The scheme is open to applications from community the UK’s most disadvantaged communities.
groups, charities and not-for-profit organisations
wanting to make a difference in their local area. We are passionate about creating a future where
Tesco customers and colleagues are also encouraged every neighbourhood is vibrant and green,
to nominate local good causes to be supported. every community is strong and able to shape its
own destiny, and no-one is held back by their
Tesco customers in each store across the UK are background or circumstances.
given a blue token with their shopping to vote for
the projects they think most deserve funding.
Since the programme launched in 2016 Tesco
Community Grants has awarded £101,881,339 in
grant funding to 50,880 community projects, with
grant awards decided by 738,402,011 votes cast by
Tesco customers in stores across the UK.1
1 All figures correct as of October 2022.
We’re proud to say that at Tesco, we’re right at the heart of communities. We’ve helped raise awareness of efforts to combat knife crime in London,
That’s because at every one of our stores up and down the UK, we are supported veterans through charities based in our garrison towns and kept
giving every customer and every one of our 300,000 colleagues, the chance kids happy and active through sport. We’ve helped fund Pride events from
to play their part and respond to local need in their communities. Swansea to the Isle of Wight, and awarded grants to groups working to
And we’ve been doing so in partnership with and alongside Groundwork, to eradicate homelessness in Greater Manchester.
provide financial grant support for 50,000 projects who are working hard
to make a difference to local people’s lives, since 2016. All of this and so much more has been possible thanks to the support
of our customers who vote for the causes that matter to them and to
Through the best of times we’ve responded in celebration of milestone Groundwork for helping us to understand better what’s important to the
events, like our special centenary rounds which saw more than £3.3m local communities in which we serve.
awarded to groups across the country. We’ve helped outdoor spaces thrive,
grown gardens, vegetables, flowers and fruit and we’ve inspired all ages to As a result, we’ve been able to respond when it matters and to understand
sing, dance, play music together and perform. the relevant issues at heart, providing, through our tried and tested blue
token scheme, access, reassurance and solutions for thousands of people
And more recently through some very difficult times we’ve helped get nationwide.
what’s needed most to families through funding for food, mental health
support, lifesaving equipment and specialist resources. During the Covid At Tesco, everyone is welcome. We hope our Tesco and Groundwork
pandemic for example, when community groups were a lifeline of support Impact Report highlights this, the enormous breadth, diversity and
but were in crisis themselves, and now, as we face into the huge challenges opportunities we have supported and the positive difference we’re helping
of cost of living, supporting community groups who constantly worry if to make in our communities every day.
they will run out of money just keeping the lights on.
Jason Tarry
Chief Executive, Tesco UK
us the impacts of climate change are becoming more real and more severe.
Our communities are being buffeted by forces beyond their control with
the greatest stress being felt by those with least choice in society.
At the same time, however, we see time and time again how collective
action in our local communities can make a difference to the way people
think, feel and act about the challenges they face. Neighbourhood groups,
schools and community hubs provided a lifeline during lockdowns, local
voluntary organisations are at the forefront of tackling food and fuel
poverty, and there is a groundswell of environmental activism that gives us
hope we can prevent the worst impacts of climate change and help nature
recover.
That’s why the Tesco Community Grants scheme is so timely and so
important. It puts money directly into the hands of local people working to
make a difference to the quality of life in their area. Some of the projects
funded are literally life-saving – supporting vital health and care facilities –
others are helping local communities have more say over what goes in their
area through the running of community centres or local services. Many are
simply giving us the chance to meet neighbours and share in the things that
bring us joy in life – improving playgrounds and sports facilities, supporting
local choirs or connecting us with nature.
At Groundwork we have over 40 years’ experience of helping communities
to change places and change lives – putting power in the hands of local
people to make a practical difference to the issues that matter to them. We
remain delighted to be working with Tesco to make this happen on such a
scale.
Graham Duxbury
Chief Executive, Groundwork UK
Tesco Community Grants was launched in England, Wales and Scotland in October 2016 as ‘Bags of
Help’, utilising funds raised through the sale of Tesco’s single use carrier bags and Bags for Life. It became
an integral component of Tesco’s community strategy and was relaunched in 2020 as Tesco Community
Grants, now including Northern Ireland.
How it works What’s been delivered
Since its inception the programme has always had an emphasis on being • 50,880 projects supported across the UK
led by local communities, from the application and nomination process, • 738,402,011 customer votes in Tesco stores
through to the way funding decisions get made. Applicants submit their • £101,881,339 in grants awarded
ideas online with every application assessed against a set of eligibility
criteria. Having been checked by Groundwork’s expert grant management Tesco Community Grants is a demand-led programme, meaning groups can
team, local grant panels including Tesco colleagues help identify a shortlist apply for the projects and activities they want to deliver and customers can
of successful applications. Three projects appear in the vote every quarter determine through their votes which groups receive most support. The
in each of Tesco’s 656 ‘store regions’2. Customers get the final say through programme has supported a huge variety of activities driven by local need
the blue token voting system with projects receiving up to £1,500, £1,000 and opportunity.
or £500 based on the number of votes cast.
The following tables illustrates the breakdown of the number of grants
Applicant groups are also supported by a network of ‘Community Enablers’ awarded and total funding based on the core project focus between 2016
employed by Groundwork and greenspace scotland, who work in the heart and 2022.
of communities helping to raise awareness of the programme, supporting
local groups with the application process and offering advice on how to
deliver and promote successful projects.
2 The number and concentration of Tesco ‘store regions’ vary across UK regions and countries,
which will be reflected in the amounts of grants and funding awarded in those areas.
No of grants Funding
Project focus awarded provided
Arts and culture 1611 £2,500,409
Building better community relationships 3599 £6,123,605
Community activities in an outdoor space 1822 £4,180,573
Covid 19 emergency support 8049 £4,024,500
Creating a better environment 5160 £17,260,217
Education, training or skills 6540 £11,187,705
Improving health and wellbeing 15091 £30,396,315
Physical improvements to an outdoor space 3207 £17,145,443
Sport 4077 £7,127,781
Tackling food insecurity 1724 £1,934,791
50880 £101,881,339
Tesco Community Grants supports local groups and good causes in every
part of the UK. Highlighting different projects in each of Tesco’s 656 ‘store
regions’ ensures grant panels are able to make recommendations informed
by local knowledge and customers are able to vote for projects they
recognise in their local area.
The following graphs illustrate the breakdown of the number of grants
awarded and total funding provided by geographic region between 2016
and 2022.
Grants Awarded by Region (2016 - 2022) Funding Awarded by Region (2016 - 2022)
East Midlands 3,265 East Midlands £6,730,454
East of England 5,627 East of England £11,593,994
Isle of Man 76 Isle of Man £151,166
London 3,516 London £7,121,658
North East 1,499 North East £2,977,569
North West 4,956 North West £10,009,383
Northern Ireland* 506 Northern Ireland* £547,733
Scotland 6,815 Scotland £13,345,657
South East 7,762 South East £15,885,460
South West 5,909 South West £11,857,035
Wales 3,643 Wales £7,160,948
West Midlands 3,670 West Midlands £7,231,304
Yorkshire and the Humber 3,363 Yorkshire and the Humber £7,268,978
Responding to need
Tesco Community Grants is a demand-led
programme – providing funds to help communities
act on the issues that matter to them. Over the
course of the programme, feedback from local
stores, stakeholders and communities has led to
concentrations of activity on specific issues.
In London we helped draw attention to the work For sixteen weeks, the Hackney teenagers undertake weekly nursery
being done by local community groups to help visits, followed by a reflective classroom session with Power2 facilitators.
As part of the scheme, the young people will mentor an assigned toddler
combat knife crime, adding value to campaigns
with learning and play activities. For some participants, mentoring their
led by the Mayor and local authorities to tackle
assigned toddler is the first time anyone has ever looked up to them – an
the issue. Although official statistics show the enormous boost to their self-esteem. Mentoring helps them improve
self-confidence and resilience, which is known to reduce the risk of school
number of incidents declining from a peak of
exclusion and involvement in violent or criminal behaviour.
15,600 in 2019/20, crime involving knives remains
a significant concern for communities with young Charlotte Schofield, income and engagement officer at Power2, said:
Londoners particularly concerned about safety3. In
“We’re so grateful to Tesco for this funding. 76% of our beneficiaries at
total £44,000 was awarded to 43 groups delivering
Power2 are based in London and from an ethnic minority background.
projects to provide positive alternatives for young
people drifting into gangs and tailored mentoring “We will use this funding to extend our programme to help set the
foundations for disadvantaged young people to have brighter futures -
support in schools.
preventing problems like exclusion and involvement in knife crime before
they occur.
Power2, London
“Socio-economic disadvantage is closely linked to poor wellbeing and
engagement at school. Poor mental health and school exclusion have both
Hackney teens at risk of grooming by gangs and involvement in knife crime
been found to be risk-factors for grooming by gangs and involvement in
were able to benefit from a peer-mentoring programme that looks to
knife crime.
improve their school engagement and mental wellbeing.
“Teens and Toddlers can help through early intervention to improve young
Power2 received £1,000 from Tesco Community Grants scheme to fund its
people’s wellbeing.”
Teens and Toddlers initiative which will see young men aged 13-15 improve
their school engagement and mental wellbeing through the experience of
mentoring a toddler in a local nursey.
3 https://www.centreforlondon.org/news/young-people-crime/
In Manchester we supported the launch of the Jenni Willows, head of fundraising at The Booth Centre, said: “At the Booth
Centre, we know it’s important to offer people the chance to come in and
Mayor’s homelessness strategy, dedicating funds
eat a free healthy breakfast and lunch in a sociable environment. We know
to projects that help people sleeping rough by
that often this is the only food an individual will eat all day.
providing food and emergency shelter4. Research
published by Shelter found that Manchester had “Across Greater Manchester, over 5,500 people are homeless, either living
on the streets or in temporary accommodation. We are here for anyone
the third highest rate of homelessness behind
who needs us. With support from Tesco, we were able to supply over 900
Luton and Brighton with one in 81 people in the city
people with a nutritious hot meal in a warm, safe and friendly space.”
classed as being homeless in 2021.
As well as accessing meals at the Booth Centre, people can also join
community projects including growing food in the centre’s garden, which
To help address this issue 40 groups in Greater
is then used in the kitchen. The charity also runs training placements in the
Manchester were awarded funds of just over kitchen to give people a head start towards food service and preparation
£100,000 that helped support the creation of employment.
overnight ‘people pods’ and the provision of advice,
Jenni continued: “We can help people improve their health and wellbeing
support, guidance and outreach services in the city.
through enjoying a substantial meal. Then, through welcoming people and
getting to know each other, we can help people with all the support they
need to move forward in their lives.
The Booth Centre, Manchester
“As such, we can help people leave behind food insecurity, poverty and
The Booth Centre is a Manchester charity-run café and wellbeing centre homelessness forever. With many small, often volunteer-run groups facing
open five days a week, providing a nutritious meal for those experiencing or rising costs, Tesco Community Grants are vital at the moment to help us
at risk of experiencing homelessness. The centre received a £1,500 grant keep going.”
from Manchester Tesco shoppers.
4 https://england.shelter.org.uk/media/press_release/274000_people_in_england_are_
homeless_with_thousands_more_likely_to_lose_their_homes
In communities with a large military presence Withernsea Armed Forces and Veterans Breakfast Club,
some of the challenges we heard about included Scarborough
the difficulty veterans face in finding work and the
A charity providing a safe environment and social breakfast club for
impact this can have on their mental health, with
veterans and serving members of HM Forces has received a £500 grant
Ministry of Defence research5 suggesting 12.7% of from Scarborough Tesco shoppers.
UK Armed Forces personnel were seen in military
Withernsea Armed Forces and Veterans Breakfast Club is a charity-run
healthcare for a mental health related reason in
social gathering
2019/20.
Kevin Thomas Watson, secretary at Withernsea Armed Forces and
Veterans Breakfast Club, said:
In Scarborough, Plymouth and other ‘garrison
towns’ we have responded to this by providing
“Veterans of all ages and all arms of the services
nearly £190,000 in grants to projects ranging from
can feel isolated when in civvy street, missing the
supporting local people in their recovery with
banter and camaraderie experienced whilst serving.
alcohol and substance misuse to providing much-
needed support to bereaved British Forces children “We provide a safe and welcoming environment for them to ‘return to the
who have suffered the loss of a parent. tribe’, where they can relax, feel safe, and enjoy general chat among like-
minded people, and give back some of the feeling of belonging which they
may have lost when leaving the services. They come to enjoy the three B’s
- Butty, Brew, and Banter. Too often those who serve, and have served in
His Majesty’s Forces can feel apart from society, and miss that special bond
gained in the forces.”
5 https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/
attachment_data/file/993208/20210617_MH_Annual_Report_2020-21.pdf
Scotty’s Little Soldiers, the Plymouth charity for bereaved British Forces
children and young people, received £1,500 from the Tesco Community
Grant scheme after customers in local stores voted for the charity to
support the Children of the Fallen project.
Scotty’s Little Soldiers was founded by widow Nikki Scott in 2010,
following the death of her husband, Corporal Lee Scott, in Afghanistan
and after seeing the devastating impact on their two young children. The
charity provides support and guidance to hundreds of bereaved military
children and young people throughout their childhood.
Services offered to Scotty’s members include access to child bereavement
support, guidance to parents and carers, personal education and learning
assistance (including grants), and fun activities such as holiday respite
breaks and group events. These are all designed to remind the children and
young people supported by Scotty’s that they are not alone.
Founder Nikki Scott said: “We’re really grateful to Tesco for this funding.
Our mission is to provide relief from the effects of bereavement to young
people who have experienced the death of a parent who served with the
Armed Forces.
“We want every bereaved Forces child to have access to the very best
health and wellbeing support, outstanding development opportunities and
the chance to smile again.
“Without kind public assistance like this from organisations such as Tesco,
we wouldn’t be able to provide this much-needed support. It means so
much to the children to know they are part of a supportive community that
helps keep them connected to the military and that their parents’ service
and sacrifice have not been forgotten.”
Food Poverty
Food poverty was the focus of a dedicated round
of Tesco Community Grants funding in Glasgow,
recognising the fact that the city has a well-
developed community food network which is seen
as an integral part of the Glasgow City Food Plan
for 2030. £20,000 was awarded to 14 groups in the
city to support projects that support pop up food
banks and provide healthy breakfasts for children.
Food insecurity is also a key challenge in
Birmingham – with 7% of the city’s residents
reported as needing to use food banks during
lockdown.6 We have been able to award £68,000 to
77 projects in the city that feed vulnerable families
through life-saving food parcels and work with local
schools to provide children at risk of hunger with a
free, nutritious breakfast each school morning.
6 https://www.local.gov.uk/case-studies/birmingham-city-council-food-system-strategy-2022-2030
St Mark’s Primary School received £500 to help it run a daily breakfast
club, which aims to reduce the stress of the morning routine for families
and children, offering them a healthy breakfast before school starts.
Each child taking part in the breakfast club receives a healthy meal to help
them kickstart their day, as well an opportunity to enjoy further social
interactions with their friends. The project was put on hold during the
recent pandemic; however, the grant has supported the school in buying
new equipment such as plates and tea towels, helping to re-establish the
breakfast club, which sees between 80 to 100 children in attendance daily.
Claire McKie, Principal Teacher, said: “Our Breakfast Club helps to
support children and families in alleviating the stress of morning routines,
especially during this challenging time. We aim to ensure that every child
can receive a healthy breakfast and a good start to their school day so that
they’re ready to focus, concentrate and learn as soon as the bell goes at
9am.
“We’d like to thank all of the team at Tesco and the kind customers who
voted for our cause and help us to relaunch these vital Breakfast Club
sessions following the recent pandemic.”
Young people from all backgrounds across Birmingham are receiving
nutritious meals and support, helped by a grant from Tesco.
5UP CIC received the funds from Tesco’s Community Grant scheme after
customers in local stores voted for the charity, to support the group’s Keep
Me Out of Trouble & Feed Me Project.
The group works with partners such as the West Midlands Police, Sandwell
Police and Birmingham agencies to tackle socio-economic factors that
affect communities throughout the Birmingham area.
The Tesco funding will be used to engage people with health and wellbeing
programmes, crime reduction initiatives and mentoring programs. The
group specifically supports children and young people from any ethnicity
who may come from a disadvantaged background and be at a higher risk of
gang involvement and knife crime.
Nathan Bendon, one of the founders of 5UP CIC, said: “Thanks to Tesco we
are able to provide our participants with a healthy meal after each session.
Families can often struggle to put three meals on the table each day, and
this funding will allow us to feed the children while teaching them about
nutrition and the importance of a healthy diet.
“Our project works with the police and this generous grant will allow us
to help steer young people away from a life of crime and instead choose
healthier, happier lives.
“The young people we work with are from all different cultures and
religions and our initiative encourages them to work together to learn
about each other’s cultures, ensuring that in and out of the gym these
individuals’ values are guided by a sense of respect and understanding.”
In many parts of the country funding from Tesco GIRES, Wales
Community Grants has been used by local groups
The Gender Identity Research & Education Society (GIRES) – a charity
to support cohesion and celebrate diversity within
whose mission is to work with and support the trans and gender diverse
our communities. The scheme has supported
communities – was voted by customers in local stores to receive the
provision for refugees and asylum seekers, helped £1,000 grant from Tesco as part of its Community Grant scheme to support
their project and ensure that trans and gender diverse people in Wales are
build bridges between generations and been used
treated equally and respectfully when they die.
by groups to show their support for the LGBTQ+
community through events and activities linked to GIRES works in collaboration with other charities and groups with similar
Pride Week. aims and goals to improve the environments in which trans and gender-
diverse people live.
Supported by over 300 individuals, GIRES offers a variety of services
to ensure that the rights of trans and gender diverse people are upheld
throughout their lives and afterwards.
Ash Hayhurst, Being Ready Project Manager said: “We cannot thank Tesco
enough for this funding. Our mission is to work with and collaborate with
all who share in our beliefs and values to uphold the rights of trans and
gender diverse communities.
“Everyone should be able to feel safe and comfortable in their own bodies
and communities without fear of being treated differently and this should
also be the case in death. No one should feel as though they must hide any
part of themselves in order to receive adequate care and support.”
Supporting Sustainability
Across the country local charities and communities
are driving action to combat the climate and nature
emergencies. 16% of funds awarded through
Tesco Community Grants have gone to projects
focused on creating a better environment or
improving an outdoor space. Many of the projects
funded to support health and wellbeing also
achieve their goals by helping people connect with
nature. Projects funded range from local food and
gardening initiatives to campaigns to reduce waste
and promote re-use. We are also providing support
and information to help all groups funded consider
what more they can do to deliver their project in a
way which maximises environmental sustainability.
Tesco Bags of Help responded to the Coronavirus
(COVID-19) pandemic by setting up a new short-
term fund to support local communities: the
Tesco Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund. The
fund provided a single payment award of £500 to
organisations which are supporting vulnerable
groups.
The fund was designed to support organisations that experienced one of
the following:
Increased demand e.g. a holiday hunger club needing more resources
to support children through the summer months, or a food bank
needing an immediate donation to restock.
Disrupted services e.g. a local charity adapting its local lunch club into
a delivery service, or a charity needing to set up a telephone service to
support beneficiaries.
Need for new services e.g. a health focused charity requiring new IT
equipment to set up a new online patient service, or a mental health
charity developing a new service in response to new need.
The fund was launched on 1 April 2020 and at the time of the evaluation
of the Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund 7,425 applications had been
received, with a total of £4,025,000 being awarded to 8,050 projects.
7 As of 17 July 2020
To apply for a Tesco Community Grant visit:
www.tescocommunitygrants.org.uk
Report published by Groundwork UK.
www.groundwork.org.uk
Groundwork UK is the operating name of the Federation of
Groundwork Trusts, a company limited by guarantee.