Delivering Progress
Every Day
Amazon’s 2021 Sustainability Report
About Amazon About This Report Contents
Amazon is guided by four principles: customer obsession At Amazon, we are committed to and invested in
rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, sustainability because it’s a win all around—it’s good Introduction Governance
commitment to operational excellence, and long-term for the planet, for business, for our customers, and for
3 O pening Letter From Kara Hurst, Vice 75 Corporate Governance
thinking. We strive to be Earth’s most customer-centric our communities. President, Worldwide Sustainability 77 Business Ethics
company, Earth’s best employer, and Earth’s safest 4 Our Business 78 A dvocacy and Public Policy
place to work. Customer reviews, 1-Click shopping, Our 2021 Sustainability Report builds on our sustainability 5 S ustainability Around the Globe 79 Partnerships
personalized recommendations, Prime, Fulfillment by progress over the last decade—particularly since we co- 6 G oals and Progress
Amazon, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Kindle Direct founded The Climate Pledge in 2019 and announced our 7 C ontinuing Our COVID-19 Response
Publishing, Kindle, Career Choice, Fire tablets, Fire commitment to achieve net-zero carbon emissions across Appendix
TV, Amazon Echo, Alexa, Just Walk Out technology, our business by 2040. This report also includes our work
81 SASB
Amazon Studios, and The Climate Pledge are some of on a wide range of Amazon commitments and initiatives Environment
84 UNGP Reporting Framework
the things pioneered by Amazon. We have more than to support our employees, our supply chain partners, and
10 O ur Carbon Footprint 90 TCFD
1.6 million employees worldwide, with operations the communities where we operate around the world. 14 G rowing The Climate Pledge 96 UN SDGs
in Africa, Asia-Pacific, Europe, India, Latin America, 16 I nvesting in Innovation Through 97 C arbon Footprint Data
the Middle East, and North America. All financial figures are reported in U.S. dollars ($), The Climate Pledge Fund 98 Supplier Assessments
unless otherwise stated. 18 S upporting Nature-Based Solutions 99 O ur Workforce Data
20 O n the Path to 100% Renewable Energy 100 Disclaimer and
Please note that data within this report primarily reflects 22 I ncorporating Sustainability Into Forward-Looking Statements
Our Buildings
Look out for these symbols progress as of 2021, and all data that is timebound
24 Decarbonizing Transportation
throughout the report: since a certain date is updated as of June 2022, unless
26 A voiding and Managing Waste
A link that directs you to a website otherwise indicated.
28 I mproving Our Packaging
A link within the report
30 Product Sustainability
A link to a download This report includes appendices that are informed
35 Sustainability in the Cloud
by the following frameworks: the Sustainability
Look out for these common Accounting Standards Board (SASB), the Task Force
abbreviations throughout the report: on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), Society
AWS—Amazon Web Services and the United Nations Guiding Principles (UNGP)
41 R especting Human Rights Throughout
UN—United Nations Reporting Framework. Our Business
NGO—Nongovernmental organizations 46 P roviding a Range of Employee Benefits
CO2—Carbon dioxide 51 F ostering Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
CO2e—Carbon dioxide equivalent 57 E mployee Engagement: Listening to
Our People
59 S afety, Health, and Well-Being at Amazon
61 B uilding a Supply Chain That Puts People First
Opening Letter From
Delivering Progress for the Planet diverse representation in our workforce at the most senior Delivering Progress Every Day
levels. We’ve helped more than 70,000 Amazon employees
Kara Hurst
In 2019, we co-founded The Climate Pledge and made a learn new skills and advance their careers as part of our We are proud of the progress we’ve made, but we
commitment to achieve net-zero carbon by 2040—10 years Upskilling 2025 pledge, and we are enabling thousands of recognize we have more to do. Our everyday actions to
ahead of the Paris Agreement. We invited others to join hourly employees in 14 countries to earn certificates and deliver progress are in service of achieving long-term,
Vice President, Worldwide us and there are now more than 300 businesses and degrees through Amazon Career Choice. Earlier this year, we systemic change that improves the well-being of people,
Sustainability, Amazon organizations across 51 industries and 29 countries that also expanded travel reimbursements for our employees in communities, and the planet.
have signed the Pledge, which means we are collectively the U.S. to cover treatment for non-life-threatening medical
Every day at Amazon, we ask ourselves, “How can we make coming at the climate crisis from nearly every sector and issues when travel is required, including elective abortion and The path to achieving some of our goals will be long and
this product, this service, or this experience better for our nearly every angle. infertility, starting in 2022. complex, but we are not deterred. At Amazon, we thrive on
customers?” We continually seek ways to challenge ourselves pushing the boundaries of what’s possible. We are taking
and improve how we deliver for our customers, support As part of our efforts to decarbonize our business, we In our communities, we are supporting initiatives to address the same tenacity we use to invent and problem solve for
our employees, and accelerate the pace of innovation. became the world’s largest corporate purchaser of renewable the affordable housing crisis—including a commitment of our customers and applying it to how we help address some
This mindset is ingrained in our culture, so every day, we energy in 2020, and last year, we reached 85% renewable more than $2 billion from the Amazon Housing Equity Fund, of the world’s biggest challenges. I hope you enjoy learning
apply the same relentless pursuit to delivering progress energy across our business. We continue to expand our use launched last year. As of March 2022, these commitments more about how we are doing this as you read our 2021
on our sustainability commitments. of zero-emission transportation such as electric delivery have already preserved or created 8,000 affordable units to Sustainability Report.
vans, cargo bikes, and on-foot deliveries, and in 2021, more house more than 18,000 people. Also last year—in service
The journey to become more sustainable is not simple or than 100 million packages were delivered to our customers’ to people in our communities and supply chain—we signed With gratitude,
straightforward for any organization. For a company of doorsteps globally using zero-emission vehicles. We are also the United Nations’ (UN) Women’s Empowerment Principles,
the size and broad scope of Amazon, it’s a big challenge. investing in nature-based solutions, and last year, we helped which offers businesses guidance on ways to promote Kara Hurst
But at Amazon, we don’t shy away from big challenges. to create the Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest gender equity in the workplace and global community; we
We innovate and create. We don’t have all the answers finance (LEAF) Coalition—a global initiative of governments created a $150 million Black Business Accelerator program
today, but we believe in the need to act now. and leading companies that has already mobilized $1 billion in partnership with our Black Employee Network affinity
to protect the world’s tropical rainforests. We will continue group; and we launched a $12 million, five-year partnership
This is reflected in one of our newest Leadership Principles, to act boldly to address climate change and to invest in with the U.S. National Safety Council to uncover new ways
introduced last year: Success and Scale Bring Broad solutions to help meet our commitment to reach net-zero to prevent and address musculoskeletal disorders.
Responsibility. It says that “we are big, we impact the world, carbon across our operations by 2040.
and we are far from perfect. We must be humble and Since the beginning of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in early
thoughtful about even the secondary effects of our actions. 2022, we quickly mobilized to provide humanitarian aid and
Our local communities, planet, and future generations Delivering Progress for People assistance to the people of Ukraine, including financial and
need us to be better every day.” We apply our Leadership in-kind donations, cloud computing credits, resettlement
Principles daily—whether we are discussing ideas for new Our ability to be a force for change on behalf of our planet support, and more. We are proud of how our global teams
inventions or deciding on the best approach to solve a relies on diverse perspectives from smart, passionate, came together to support this effort and are honored
problem. Throughout 2021, we embedded the spirit of and committed people from all backgrounds. In 2021, we to have been awarded the Ukraine Peace Prize for the
this Leadership Principle into our everyday actions and continued to make progress on our diversity goals, including support AWS has shown the Ukraine government and the
continued to make progress on our environmental and increasing the number of Black directors and vice presidents Ukrainian people.
Our Business
As part of our mission to be Earth’s most customer-centric company, we are
committed to building a sustainable business for our employees, customers,
and communities, including the people that support our entire value chain.
Our Operations Our Communities Our Supply Chain Our Customers
We offer access to a wide selection of products We leverage our scale and assets for good to support Our approach is designed to drive engagement We are always finding new ways to delight our
sold by us and by third parties across dozens of charitable organizations and strengthen communities with suppliers that meet our expectations for customers while constantly aiming to offer lower
categories. We help make customers’ lives easier where our employees and customers live and respecting human rights, providing safe and inclusive prices, better selections, and more convenient
and more enjoyable through our devices and work. Our culture is built around solving seemingly workplaces, and promoting a sustainable future. services. We serve our primary customer sets in the
services. We create and provide access to world-class impossible problems, which is why we take a different, We engage with suppliers across the globe that following ways: consumers through our online and
content and entertainment. We provide the world’s more hands-on approach than most. We use this are required to meet the standards we outline physical stores; sellers through programs that enable
most comprehensive and broadly adopted cloud approach to support education for underrepresented and commit to these principles. them to grow their businesses; developers and
offering. All of this and more is underscored by our groups, address direct needs including family hunger, enterprises of all sizes through AWS; content creators
commitment to customer service and a state-of-the- homelessness, and natural disasters, and protect our through services that enable them to publish and sell
art logistics and delivery network. planet to build a better future for all. content; and advertisers through advertising services.
Our Principles We have 16 Leadership Principles , which describe how we do business and how we keep the customer at the
center of our decisions. In 2021, we added two new Leadership Principles: Strive to be Earth’s Best Employer
Sustainability Germany
Singapore
Canada
Partnered with The Nature Italy
Around Conservancy’s Urban Greening Announced our first renewable
Announced our largest Program in Germany and Supported Parco Italia, an urban energy project in Singapore, a
renewable energy project in supported mapping and analysis forestry program that aims to 62-megawatt (MW) solar project
the Globe Canada in June 2021. Once for roofs, grasslands, and urban plant 22 million trees across made up of a series of solar panels
online, our renewable projects streetscapes in Berlin. 14 metropolitan areas in Italy. mounted on a ground system that
in Canada will produce more will generate 80,000 MWh of clean
than 1 million megawatt-hours energy annually.
(MWh) each year.
Our global sustainability efforts
are making a positive impact in
communities around the world.
Learn more about our global initiatives on our website. United States
Women at Amazon in the Indonesia
U.S. earned 99.9 cents
for every dollar that men Partnered with Water.org and
earned performing the WaterAid in India and Indonesia
same jobs in 2021. to provide clean water to over
250,000 community members.
Brazil India
Partnered with The Nature Began adding 10,000
Conservancy to launch the electric vehicles to
Agroforestry and Restoration our existing fleet.
Accelerator to restore native
rainforest to naturally trap
and store carbon and mitigate Tanzania
climate change.
South Africa Began hosting data on AWS
on the Digital Earth Africa
Launched our first operational platform to monitor how coastal Australia
solar project in South Africa, erosion, rising sea levels, and
expected to generate up to deforestation are contributing Supported Solcast to use cloud
28,000 MWh of renewable to the degradation of mangrove cover, solar radiation, and
energy per year for the grid. trees on the island. photovoltaic power data to
provide forecasts to the solar
power industry.
Goals and
On a path to powering Increase representation Success and Scale
our operations with of employees from Bring Broad
Progress
100% renewable diverse backgrounds Responsibility
energy by 2025 across our business
Bold thinking and relentless
innovation. That’s what we 274 85% +70% 45.5% 225M+ $2B
do at Amazon, and how we
Renewable projects Renewable energy Increase in the number of Female representation on In-kind donated items, including Investment through the
approach sustainability is announced as of the end (electricity) reached across Black directors and vice Amazon’s Board of personal protective equipment Amazon Housing Equity Fund to
of 2021 Amazon’s business in 2021 presidents in 2021 Directors as of 2021 and essentials, in 2021 support affordable housing
no exception.
#1 100K+ 9K+
Our approach combines long-term commitments
World’s largest corporate Employee participants in Amazon Amazon transportation associates trained to identify and
and everyday actions, reinforced by our
purchaser of renewable energy affinity groups globally in 2021 respond to potential victims of human trafficking
Leadership Principles and our “Day 1” mentality.
We apply our history of invention to ideas and
efforts that support people and communities.
Contributing to a
We make targeted investments to support our Transforming Our Operations Activating Collective Impact
More Equitable Society
ambitions and the development of sustainable
technologies. These are just some of the many
ways we are working to deliver progress on the
path to achieving our long-term goals. Make 50% of Strive to be Earth’s Inspire and empower
Amazon shipments Best Employer others to join us on a
Learn more about our Goals and Progress net-zero carbon mission to reach
on our website. by 2030 net-zero carbon by 2040
100M+ 1.5M+ $1.2B $300M+ 300+ 370M+
Packages delivered to Tons of packaging eliminated Investment as part of our Investments in safety, Companies that have Climate Pledge Friendly
customers’ doorsteps using since 2015 Upskilling 2025 pledge including capital improvements joined Amazon in signing units shipped to Amazon
zero-emission vehicles in 2021 and new technology, in 2021 The Climate Pledge customers in 2021
38% $18+ $2B
Reduction in per-shipment packaging weight Average starting wage per hour for roles in fulfillment Investment through The Climate Pledge Fund to support
Continuing
Vaccine Support Enabling Global Innovation AWS Diagnostic Development Initiative
Our COVID-19 From March through early December 2021, we hosted Our infrastructure has also been helping scientists gain and The AWS Diagnostic Development Initiative (DDI) is a
more than 1,800 on-site vaccination events for front-line share knowledge of RNA viruses in record time. Diseases two-year, $20 million commitment to accelerate research
Response employees. We also launched the Max Your Vax sweepstakes caused by RNA viruses include the common cold, influenza, and innovation to advance the collective understanding and
to encourage our front-line operations employees to get SARS, COVID-19, hepatitis C, Ebola, rabies, polio, and measles. detection of COVID-19 and other infectious diseases in order
vaccinated. We offered a variety of weekly prizes—including to mitigate current and future outbreaks.
two $500,000 grand prizes, six $100,000 cash prizes, five An international team of scientists from the Serratus project
Since the early stages of the
new vehicles valued at $40,000 each, and five vacations each built a powerful supercomputer on AWS in just eight weeks. In the first phase of the AWS DDI , AWS supported 87
COVID-19 pandemic, we have valued at $12,000 that included 40 hours of paid time off. The supercomputer searched almost 6 million publicly available organizations in 17 countries, ranging from nonprofits
biological samples for the presence of RNA viruses in less than and research institutions to startups and large businesses.
worked nonstop to make hundreds
two weeks for $24,000—achieving what would have taken a AWS awarded $8 million to support a range of diagnostic
of changes to our operational
Empowering Customers to Manage standard computer well over 2,000 years and cost at least 10 projects, including molecular tests for antibodies, antigens,
processes to protect the health of Health and Safety times more. Through this process, the research team used the and nucleic acids; diagnostic imaging; wearables; and data
our employees and communities. In AWS Cloud to identify more than 130,000 new RNA viruses, analytics tools that use artificial intelligence and machine
Throughout the pandemic, we have invested billions of including nine new coronaviruses, creating a “global viral learning to detect COVID-19.
2021, amid new variants and further
dollars in the health and safety of our employees and surveillance system” that could help prevent future pandemics.
lockdowns, we continued to invest customers, including building an in-house COVID-19 testing In April 2021, AWS launched the next phase and broadened
heavily in supporting our employees, program to ensure front-line employees have access to free, the Initiative’s scope to three new areas: 1) early disease
regular testing in the U.S. and the UK. A Helping Hand detection to identify outbreaks at the individual and at the
customers, and communities.
community level; 2) prognosis to better understand disease
By January 2021, our national COVID-19 testing lab In early 2021, Amazon took immediate action to help trajectory; and 3) public health genomics to bolster viral
located in Kentucky processed more than 1 million COVID-19 address the COVID-19 surge in India. We utilized our global genome sequencing worldwide.
tests for front-line employees from more than 700 testing logistics network to purchase, airlift, and deliver medical
sites, and provided access to COVID-19 testing to nearly all equipment identified as critically needed by the government
Learn more about our global efforts to support front-line employees. At the height of the pandemic, our of India and local charities. Helping Employees Get Back to Work
customers, employees, and communities through labs were processing more than 30,000 tests each day.
the COVID-19 pandemic. We worked with industry partners and nongovernmental When the time came for employees to start returning to
We took what we learned from this process to create our organizations (NGOs) to deliver more than 8,000 oxygen corporate offices, we engaged with our teams to find out
own at-home COVID-19 test collection kit for customers. concentrators and 500 BiPAP machines to India. This medical what kind of flexibility they needed to keep everyone safe,
The tests received Emergency Use Authorization from the equipment was donated to hospitals and public institutions rather than specifying a one-size-fits-all approach for all
U.S. Food and Drug Administration in June 2021, providing to increase their capacity to help COVID-19-infected patients business units. We encouraged leaders to determine how
an affordable, reliable, and convenient way for customers across multiple cities. We also joined the U.S. Chamber of many days their team members would be in the office and
$15B+ to test for COVID-19 at home. The kits are processed by Commerce’s Global Task Force on Pandemic Response to which days those would be, so long as that decision was
Amazon’s in-house laboratory using the diagnostic approach deliver ventilators to India. In Nepal, Amazon teamed up guided by what would be most effective for our customers
COVID-19-related costs incurred since the recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control with the UN World Food Programme to donate and deliver and safest for our employees. Some teams continue working
In This Section
Our Carbon Footprint
The Climate Pledge
The Climate Pledge Fund
Nature-Based Solutions
Renewable Energy
Our Buildings
Decarbonizing Transportation
Avoiding and Managing Waste
Packaging
Environment
Product Sustainability
Sustainability in the Cloud
Investing in Positive Impact
Operating sustainably is no longer a choice—
it’s an imperative. Making meaningful
progress to address climate change takes
unprecedented action across all industries
and societies. Amazon recognizes this and
acknowledges that the ways we do business
have impacts far beyond our own company.
There’s no time to waste, and that’s why
we are investing in efforts to protect the
environments of the people and communities
we serve—both now and in the future.
Commitment The Climate Pledge Commitment
Over 300 signatories have
Reach net-zero carbon Make 50% of Amazon
joined Amazon in signing
emissions across our shipments net-zero
The Climate Pledge.
operations by 2040 carbon by 2030
Products
Shipment Zero
In 2021, more than 370 million
In 2021, more than 100 million
Climate Pledge Friendly units were
packages were delivered to
shipped to Amazon customers and
our customers’ doorsteps
we welcomed 20 new third‑party Our Environmental
globally using zero‑emission
sustainability certifications to the
vehicles. Since 2015, we
Climate Pledge Friendly program.
Commitments
have reduced per‑shipment
packaging weight by 38% and
and Progress eliminated over 1.5 million
tons of packaging.
Commitment
On a path to powering our
Commitment
operations with 100%
Reduce food waste renewable energy by 2025—
by 50% across our five years ahead of our
U.S. and Europe original target of 2030
operations by 2030 Renewable Energy
With 274 renewable projects announced
as of the end of 2021, Amazon is the
Our Carbon
The path to decarbonization remains challenging. This design, integrating power supplies into our racks, and Powering Operations With 100%
is especially true for a business of the size and broad utilizing Graviton EC2 instances that use up to 60% less Renewable Energy
Footprint scope of Amazon. We operate businesses—delivery energy for the same performance than comparable Amazon
and transportation logistics, physical stores, grocery, EC2 instances. In 2021, we reached 85% renewable energy across our
manufacturing, and cloud computing services—that involve operations, and we are on a path to achieve 100% by
moving products, manufacturing goods, and creating With all of our growth in 2021, our absolute carbon 2025—five years ahead of the original target of 2030.
Climate change is one of the world’s
computing capacity, all at scale. While some of these emissions increased by 18% in 2021; however, importantly, This transition to 100% renewable energy benefits our
greatest crises, and to address it,
businesses—including cloud computing and e-commerce— our carbon intensity decreased by 1.9%—this is the third customers as well. Studies by the international analyst firm
the public and private sectors need offer greater efficiencies, some are more carbon-intensive year in a row we’ve seen our carbon intensity decrease. 451 Research found that moving on-premises computing
endeavors. In reducing their carbon footprint through This measurement quantifies total carbon emissions, in workloads to AWS can lower workload carbon footprint by
to act together. That’s why we
investment and innovation, we will enable even greater grams of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO₂e), per dollar of nearly 80% compared to surveyed enterprise data centers.
co-founded The Climate Pledge,
efficiency and more-sustainable choices for our customers. gross merchandise sales (GMS). As companies invest in That number could improve to as high as 96% once AWS is
a commitment to reach net-zero new products and services, and their businesses grow powered with 100% renewable energy—a target we are on
carbon by 2040—10 years ahead As we work to decarbonize our company, Amazon is growing substantially, the focus should not be solely on a company’s path to meet by 2025. AWS’ infrastructure is 3.6 times more
rapidly. We have scaled our business at an unprecedented carbon footprint in terms of absolute carbon emissions, but energy efficient than the median of surveyed U.S. enterprise
of the Paris Agreement. Since we
pace to help meet the needs of our customers through the also on whether it’s lowering its carbon intensity. Over time, data centers and up to five times more energy efficient than
created the Pledge in 2019, more pandemic. From early 2020 to the end of 2021, we created continued decreases in carbon intensity can lead to lower the average European enterprise data center.
than 300 companies have joined more than 750,000 full-time and part-time jobs worldwide absolute emissions. See the Appendix for our carbon data.
and doubled the size of the fulfillment network that we
Amazon in making this commitment.
had built over the previous 25 years. At the same time, an While we’ve had success cutting emissions from some
increasing number of companies around the world moved operations, we are still early in the process of transforming
their technology to the cloud, gaining significant speed, others. Some actions and investments have immediate
innovation, and cost advantages, and AWS grew its revenue by carbon savings, while others will take years to demonstrate
37% year-over-year in 2021. results. The path to net-zero carbon has many obstacles,
but we thrive on big challenges. A few of those big
These developments meant we had to build new facilities— challenges include:
for both our consumer and cloud businesses—and expand
our transportation network. Throughout this growth, we • Powering our operations with 100% renewable energy
remained focused on improving our efficiency through by 2025
more-sustainable solutions, including electric vehicles and • Developing more-sustainable transportation infrastructure
alternative fuel options as well as wind and solar power • Constructing more-sustainable buildings
across our network. In AWS, the team spent considerable • Decarbonizing the supply chain
resource innovating on power efficiency, removing the
central Uninterruptible Power Supply from our data center
technologies: Amazon’s Climate Pledge Fund—a corporate renewable energy through a combination of off-site and Constructing our AWS data centers also presents challenges
venture fund that invests in sustainability—recently on-site solar projects. And we plan to achieve Leadership related to sustainability. Concrete and steel used in
announced it has invested in EH2 in the U.S. and Sunfire in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum construction are two of the largest contributors of
in Germany, two companies helping to push the green certification, the highest sustainability building certification embodied carbon in a data center building, and we have
hydrogen industry forward. issued by the U.S. Green Building Council. multiple initiatives to reduce their carbon impact. For
example, our design standards now require concrete with a
It will take time to remove carbon emissions from heavy We also continue to innovate with construction techniques to 20% reduction in embodied carbon compared with standard
transportation systems, including ocean shipping, aviation, make our fulfillment centers more sustainable. Many of our concrete for new U.S. data centers, and we are expanding
and trucking. Governments and the private sector need fulfillment facilities throughout the U.S., Europe, and India this requirement globally. Also, instead of using steel from
to come together on this important work. Amazon is at are powered by on-site solar, where a rooftop installation oxygen furnaces that burn coal or gas, we are moving to
the heart of such industry initiatives and government can power up to 80% of the facility’s energy use. As of steel from electric-arc furnaces, which use scrap steel and
partnerships, including the Cargo Owners for Zero Emission 2021, 115 of our global fulfillment facilities have rooftop can create steel using renewable energy and up to 100%
Vessels network (coZEV), the First Movers Coalition, the solar installations. recycled content. In 2021, six AWS data centers were
Sustainable Aviation Buyers Alliance Aviators Group (SABA), constructed with steel made this way, and we have plans
and the Clean Energy Demand Initiative. to build more in the future.
Developing More-Sustainable Constructing More-
Transportation Infrastructure Sustainable Buildings
Reducing carbon emissions in transportation is a complex Businesses also face the challenge of removing carbon
challenge for many companies. We plan to make half of emissions from new building construction. Via The
our shipments net-zero carbon by 2030, and to do that, we Climate Pledge Fund, Amazon has invested in CarbonCure
are creating a worldwide fleet of zero-emission vehicles. Technologies, which enables concrete producers to make the
Right now, the vehicles and charging infrastructure don’t same high-quality concrete with a lower carbon footprint,
exist at the scale needed to serve customers. We need and Brimstone Energy, which seeks to make cement carbon-
the supply to increase dramatically. We have ordered neutral through a process focused on calcium silicate rocks,
100,000 electric vehicles (EVs) from Rivian, and thousands which have no embedded CO2, as well as magnesium
more from manufacturers such as Mercedes-Benz, species, which passively absorb CO2. Amazon is lowering
Stellantis, and Mahindra Electric. These orders have sent a the carbon footprint of our buildings by using CarbonCure’s
demand signal that is shifting the market to meet not only systems and Brimstone Energy cement in some new
our needs, but also the needs of other companies around construction, including in Amazon’s second headquarters in
the world. Virginia (HQ2).
We announced in November that, in the city of Paris, HQ2 will be a model for sustainable construction. We’ve
two-thirds of our shipments are delivered using zero- electrified the operations of HQ2, eliminating the use of
Decarbonizing the Supply Chain We Thrive on Big Challenges
Amazon utilizes an extensive supply chain to deliver goods The challenges we collectively face on the path to net-zero
and services to our customers. Our carbon accounting carbon are considerable. Many new technologies are
process addresses all three Scopes of emissions under the showing promise in their ability to reduce carbon emissions,
Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Since 2019, we have shared the but may still require significant development. We need to
Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions included in our footprint through both invent new solutions and scale and drive down the
our annual Sustainability Report, along with a detailed costs of known solutions.
description of the comprehensive methodology underlying
our calculations. In 2021, we reached 85% renewable energy across our
operations, and we are on a path to achieve 100% by
Measurement is critical as we work toward our goal of net- 2025—five years ahead of the original target of 2030.
zero carbon by 2040—we have to measure and understand Progress is not easy, and we are far from done. However,
emissions in order to eliminate them. Like other companies, our success in deploying renewable energy globally provides
we are working to improve the granularity of data available us with a playbook that we are deploying to tackle big
and will continue to seek improvements to our reporting challenges like transportation, building construction, and
processes. We already work with organizations and supply chain decarbonization strategies. With our relentless
regulatory bodies around the globe to promote transparent culture of innovation, and a tenacious team of sustainability
and comparable climate reporting. scientists and professionals, we are committed to reaching
our 2040 target.
One example of this is through our partnership with the
We Mean Business Coalition, a group of nonprofits focused But we can’t do it alone. We will continue to work with
on accelerating the transition to a net-zero economy. We partners in the public and private sectors to drive innovation,
support the Coalition’s SME Climate Hub—a global initiative technology advancements, and global policy change. To the
that gives small and medium-sized enterprises, like those public sector, we say: We support and encourage policies
in our supply chain, free tools and resources to measure and public-private partnerships that will help accelerate
and report their emissions. With the Hub’s support, these climate solutions. And as one of more than 300 signatories
companies are committing to halve their emissions by 2030 to The Climate Pledge, we say to the innovators, scientists,
and to reach net-zero by 2050. builders, and entrepreneurs: Our door is open. We all need to
decarbonize. The work may not make the headlines or bring
immediate rewards, but a challenge like this will never be
resolved overnight. These are the hard steps that need to be
taken. We welcome you to join us in finding solutions to this
global crisis.
How Amazon Is Addressing the
Global Challenges in Carbon Reduction Commitment
Reach net-zero carbon
The path to decarbonization is incredibly complex, but we thrive on big
emissions across our
challenges. Here’s a snapshot of how we are addressing some of them.
operations by 2040
Prime Air
On a path to powering our operations with
100% renewable energy by 2025—five
Recruiting more than 300
years ahead of our original target
businesses to join us in the
pledge to reach the goal Collaborating with others to
Helping our customers meet their of the Paris Agreement improve carbon emissions
Constructing data centers net-zero goals: Studies found that 10 years early, and be reporting, such as the We
using steel made with Eliminating the use of fossil fuels moving on-premises workloads to Ordering a worldwide fleet net-zero carbon by 2040 Mean Business Coalition’s
renewable energy and up AWS can lower workload carbon of more than 100,000 SME Climate Hub
for buildings systems and food
to 100% recycled content footprint by nearly 80% EVs, powering our goal to
service at HQ2 and achieving make half our shipments Supporting the
LEED Platinum certification net-zero carbon by 2030 transparency of carbon
emissions reporting and
working to improve the
Launching partnerships
granularity of data available
to decarbonize shipping
and air freight industries,
Supporting the adoption of
such as coZEV, First Movers
low-carbon fuel standards
Coalition, and SABA
and policies that accelerate EV
charging infrastructure
Growing The
Our Approach The Pledge Commitments “ In the face of great peril, which is
what the latest science depicts, the
Climate Pledge Joining The Climate Pledge is an opportunity for companies Signatories of The Climate Pledge agree to three areas business community must have a clear
to be part of a community committed to transformational of action: path forward. Step up and accelerate
action to protect the environment from the disruptive emissions reductions so that we might
risks associated with climate change. Signatories commit Regular Reporting: Measure and report greenhouse gas avoid the worst of the damages yet
The Climate Pledge is a commitment
to reaching net-zero carbon emissions by 2040 and play a emissions on a regular basis. to come. It’s encouraging that 300
to reach net-zero carbon emissions
critical role in stimulating investment in the development companies are committed to working
by 2040—10 years ahead of the Paris of low-carbon products and services. Carbon Elimination: Implement decarbonization strategies together to achieve net-zero carbon by
in line with the Paris Agreement through real business 2040 or sooner through The Climate
Agreement. Amazon co-founded
Amazon became the first company to sign The Climate changes and innovations, including efficiency improvements, Pledge. But 300 companies are not
The Climate Pledge in 2019 to
Pledge after co-founding the initiative with Global Optimism, renewable energy, materials reductions, and other carbon- enough to deliver the transformations
build a cross-sector community a purpose-driven organization led by Christiana Figueres and emission-elimination strategies. we need. I encourage all business leaders
of companies, organizations, Tom Rivett-Carnac, who oversaw the delivery of the historic to get to grips with the science, translate
Paris Agreement, the first global accord on climate change. Credible Offsets: Neutralize any remaining emissions with it for their businesses, and enable the
individuals, and partners working
additional, quantifiable, real, permanent, and socially beneficial changes we need without delay.”
together to address the climate The Climate Pledge joins leading organizations like the We offsets to achieve net-zero annual carbon emissions by 2040.
crisis and solve the challenges of Mean Business Coalition, Race to Zero, TED Countdown, Christiana Figueres
and the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) to provide Learn more about the latest stories, progress, and Founding Partner of Global Optimism, Former
decarbonizing our economy.
resources and support to mobilize the private sector to signatories on The Climate Pledge website . Executive Secretary of the UN Framework
reach net-zero carbon by 2040. Convention on Climate Change
Collectively, The Climate Pledge signatories represent:
Progress in 2021
300+ $3.5T+
In 2021, 253 companies joined Amazon as signatories
Businesses and organizations In global annual revenue of The Climate Pledge—an increase of over 700% in
signatories over the previous year.
8M+ 51
Employees Industries
29
Countries
Putting Principles Into Practice
The power of The Climate Pledge is bringing companies together
to accelerate action—and that’s just what happened with Climate
Pledge Arena . Oak View Group , the Seattle Kraken , and
Amazon—all signatories of The Climate Pledge—worked together
to build the most sustainable arena in the world.
Named by Amazon and opened in 2021, Seattle’s history-making
Climate Pledge Arena embodies the spirit of the Pledge and
aims to set a new sustainability bar for the sports and events
industry. In November 2020, the arena submitted its net-zero
carbon registration to the International Living Future Institute.
If certification is achieved, Climate Pledge Arena will be the first
net-zero carbon certified arena in the world.
Renewable electricity from on-site solar panels and off-site
renewable energy powers 100% of the arena’s operations.
The stadium uses reclaimed rainwater stored in the ice rink
system, a concept called “Rain to Rink,” to create the greenest
ice in the National Hockey League (NHL). The building itself is
also a feat; the original 44-million-pound roof from the previous
Key Arena was reused in the construction to significantly reduce
the embodied carbon of the new arena.
The arena is also aiming to divert over 97% of waste and eliminate
100% of single-use plastics by 2024. As for the guest experience,
at least 75% of the ingredients of food served in the arena will
be sourced within a 300-mile radius and on a seasonal basis to
support regional farmers and producers. All viable unused food
from events will be donated to local community food programs.
The arena stands as a living example of what’s possible in the
transition to a low-carbon economy. It’s not about giving up things
we love—it’s about using innovation, technology, and great design
Investing in Investments in 2021 BETA Technologies is reshaping air transportation with Hippo Harvest is an agricultural company using plant
an electric vertical takeoff and landing (eVTOL) aircraft. science, machine learning, and robotics to grow leafy greens
Innovation In 2021, Amazon invested in the following companies and This aircraft, called the ALIA, can carry three cargo pallets, and other produce in greenhouse environments. Hippo
initiatives to accelerate sustainability progress across the or up to six people, for zero operational emissions delivery Harvest’s technology addresses the emissions and waste
Through areas of transportation, aviation, freight, packaging, farming, of cargo, medical supplies, or passengers. Amazon’s that result from traditional produce farming. These include
and technology: investment in BETA Technologies advances our path to fertilizer and land use, transportation, and landfill methane
zero-emissions package delivery and builds on our previous from wasted produce, which account for roughly 30% of
The Climate
Amogy is developing a system to convert green ammonia investment in ZeroAvia, the developers of hydrogen-electric the emissions from crops grown for human consumption.
to power that will be emission-free at the point of use. With aviation solutions. The greenhouse system can be deployed almost anywhere,
Pledge Fund the potential to become one of the first scalable ammonia- allowing produce to be grown closer to consumers. This cuts
to-power systems, Amogy’s technology carries enough down emissions from produce transportation and increases
energy density to support long-distance transportation the shelf life of fresh produce by up to five days. As a grocery
such as cargo shipping. This would be a significant step in retailer, Amazon is committed to supporting new produce
We know that substantial
helping decarbonize the main transport mode for global solutions like those offered by Hippo Harvest as we grow
investment is needed to develop
trade. Amogy’s technology also has future implications for our product offerings at our Amazon Fresh and Whole
solutions that will facilitate Amazon’s own decarbonization goals, including those set Foods Market stores.
by The Climate Pledge.
the transition to a low-carbon
economy. The Climate Pledge
Fund is a $2 billion venture CMC Machinery designs and manufactures custom-sized
investment program supporting boxes tailored to the dimensions of the items in each order.
This technology lowers or removes the need for single-use
the development of sustainable
plastic padding while still protecting items during shipping.
technologies and services that will Amazon expects that by the end of 2022, this technology
enable Amazon to meet our net- could reduce the cubic volume of the boxes we use for
package deliveries by 24% on average, and the technology
zero carbon goal. As of the end
is projected to reduce our use of approximately 1 billion
of 2021, Amazon had invested
plastic air pillows by the end of 2022.
in 13 companies across multiple
industry sectors since launching
this fund in 2020.
Resilient Power (RP) builds efficient and effective
transformer-based EV charging technology. RP’s technology
enables EV fast-charging infrastructure to be built at one-
tenth the size and installation time of traditional charging
technology, and is capable of charging up to 24 vehicles at a
time without requiring expensive distribution grid upgrades.
RP’s technology has the potential to help Amazon meet our
goal of deploying 100,000 Rivian electric vans by 2030, by
ensuring that vehicles can be quickly recharged to support
delivery of customer packages.
Infinium is a renewable electrofuels solution provider that
focuses on converting captured carbon dioxide and hydrogen
feedstocks into net-zero carbon fuels for use in today’s air
transport, marine freight, and heavy truck fleets. Infinium
electrofuels have the potential to enable organizations
to meet their carbon-reduction goals by accelerating the
transition away from fossil fuels.
Collaborating to Accelerate Invention The Climate Pledge Fund has also joined Elemental
Excelerator’s Scale-Up Program . Together, Elemental
In 2021, The Climate Pledge Fund joined Greentown Labs , Excelerator and Amazon are working to accelerate a pathway
ION Energy develops software to improve the life and the largest climate tech startup incubator in North America. to decarbonization that mitigates the impact of climate
performance of lithium-ion batteries that power electric Greentown Labs has a growing network of industry-leading change more quickly and equitably by identifying and
vehicles (EVs) and energy-storage systems. ION works with organizations committed to climate action and innovation. The supporting technology startups at the forefront of clean
more than 75 customers in the mobility and energy industry Climate Pledge Fund’s engagement with climate tech startups energy, mobility, agriculture, and the circular economy.
across 15 countries, including India, France, Spain, and the will help accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy.
U.S. We believe that ION’s mission to improve the life and Learn more about our full list of investments
Supporting Our Approach scalable business models for reforestation and regenerative Nepal. The LEAF Coalition is expected to become one of the
agroforestry. Over time, we will look to expand our focus to largest initiatives ever to protect tropical forests and support
Nature-Based In 2019, Amazon created the Right Now Climate Fund, a include other forms of nature-based carbon removal, such sustainable development, and will benefit billions of people
$100 million fund for nature-based solutions to restore and as restoring mangrove forests and marine ecosystems. around the world who depend on the rainforests.
Solutions conserve forests, wetlands, and grasslands around the world.
Amazon uses nature-based solutions to mitigate carbon Nature-Based Carbon Removal in Brazil Supporting Family Forests in the U.S.
emissions outside of our value chain and supplement the In 2021, Amazon partnered with The Nature Conservancy In 2020, Amazon committed $10 million to support two
Climate science is telling us
carbon-reduction efforts we are driving across our operations. to launch the Agroforestry and Restoration Accelerator . programs in collaboration with The Nature Conservancy.
that, even with aggressive Nature-based solutions also have the additional benefit of The Accelerator will restore native rainforest to naturally trap The programs help family forest owners sequester carbon
helping to preserve the natural world by conserving wildlife and store carbon and mitigate climate change. It will also across the Appalachian region of the Eastern U.S., which
decarbonization efforts, companies
habitats, protecting biodiversity, improving water quality, and create a more sustainable source of income for thousands of has been identified as disproportionately important for
will need to go beyond their
reducing flood risk. All of these impacts can greatly enhance local farmers in the Brazilian Amazonian state of Pará. The conserving biodiversity and mitigating climate change.
own operations to reach net- well-being in communities around the world. Accelerator is experimenting with innovative ways to support Amazon’s grant supports efforts to expand the programs
farmers and nurture markets for sustainable commodities to new regions, develop a scientific approach to measuring
zero emissions by 2050. We
We follow scientific research to fund initiatives that are critical and will advance new approaches and satellite-based regional carbon impact, and enhance carbon verification
believe that companies, including
to hitting the targets of the Paris Agreement and staving technologies to quantify and monitor carbon removal. methodology for these projects. In 2021, the programs
Amazon, can drastically reduce off the most catastrophic effects of climate change. Our added 107 new family landowners and expanded access
their own emissions while also approach to carbon neutralization focuses on three actions to the program to 130 counties.
outside our value chain that can deliver needed mitigation Reducing Emissions From
investing outside their operations
and that have a significant unmet need for investment: Deforestation
in initiatives that significantly
contribute to achieving the Paris • Reducing deforestation to near zero, especially in Significant investment is urgently needed to help
tropical regions communities set a course that both provides for sustainable
Agreement. One way we are doing
• Scaling up the removal of carbon from the atmosphere economic development and protects forests, particularly in
this is by investing in nature-based
with nature-based solutions such as reforestation tropical forest regions.
solutions that conserve, restore, and and agroforestry
• Scaling up carbon-removal technologies, such as direct
improve land management activities
air carbon capture and storage Protecting the World’s Tropical Rainforests
to increase carbon storage in a
In 2021, Amazon helped to create the Lowering Emissions
variety of habitats. by Accelerating Forest finance (LEAF) Coalition , a global
Scaling Up Nature-Based initiative of governments and leading companies that has
Carbon Removal already mobilized $1 billion to protect the world’s tropical
rainforests . The public-private project is designed to
Nature-based carbon removal has the potential to take accelerate climate action by providing financing to help
billions of tons of carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere. countries protect their tropical rainforests. In November
Nature-Based Investments in Urban Greening in Germany
Communities Across Europe In 2020, Amazon committed €3.75 million to The Nature
Conservancy’s Urban Greening Program in Germany, which
Nature can transform urban communities while also mitigating promotes biodiversity, reduces urban heat islands, and
some of the effects of climate change, like urban heat, improves stormwater management in the face of climate
flooding, and biodiversity loss. Therefore, in addition to change. With Amazon’s support, the program launched
our work and funding toward large-scale carbon emissions in Berlin’s Charlottenburg-Wilmersdorf district in 2020.
mitigation through nature-based solutions, we are also In 2021, the Urban Greening Program developed mapping
funding smaller-scale nature projects in the communities and analysis for roofs, grasslands, and urban streetscapes
where we operate. for greening potential.
As part of our Right Now Climate Fund, Amazon has Learn more about Amazon’s science-driven approach
committed €20 million toward nature-based projects in to carbon neutralization and nature-based solutions .
communities across Europe. These projects will have robust,
science-based environmental benefits for carbon removal
and biodiversity, along with social benefits such as job
creation and access to nature.
Promoting Reforestation in Italy
In 2021, Amazon committed €2 million to support Parco
Italia, an urban forestry program that aims to plant
22 million trees across 14 metropolitan areas in Italy. This
translates to one tree planted per city resident. Amazon’s
support for this project will help cities become more resilient
to climate change by increasing urban biodiversity, improving
air quality, and promoting urban cooling.
On the Path to Our Approach In 2021, we expanded our renewable energy footprint into We also announced two new offshore wind projects in Europe,
new geographies, and by the end of the year, announced including our largest renewable energy project to date. As
100% Renewable Since 2014, Amazon has invested in global renewable renewable energy projects across 18 countries. Our first solar of December 2021, we have enabled more than 3.5 GW of
energy generation to decarbonize our business across our projects in South Africa and the United Arab Emirates came renewable energy in Europe through 80 projects, making
Energy worldwide operations. We procure new renewable energy online, and we announced new projects in Singapore, Japan, Amazon the largest purchaser of renewable energy in Europe.
through contracts for utility-scale wind and solar, on-site Australia, and China. Our projects in South Africa and Japan
rooftop solar installations, and green tariffs with local utilities are the first corporate-backed, utility-scale solar farms in In June 2021, Amazon announced our largest renewable
that deliver new, renewable energy to the grids where these countries. energy project in Canada. Once online, Amazon’s renewable
Transitioning to renewable energy
we operate. projects in Canada will produce more than 1 million MWh each
is one of the highest-impact ways to year—enough to power more than 100,000 Canadian homes.
Our projects supply renewable energy for a variety of
immediately lower emissions. With
Amazon facilities, including corporate offices, fulfillment
274 renewable projects announced
centers, data centers, and physical stores, which collectively
as of the end of 2021, Amazon is the serve millions of customers globally. These projects also help
meet Amazon’s commitment to produce the clean energy
world’s largest corporate purchaser
equivalent of the electricity used by every customer’s Echo
of renewable energy and is on a
device. We are making additional large-scale investments in
path to powering our operations wind and solar farm capacity, which will produce the clean
with 100% renewable energy by energy equivalent to the electricity used by all Echo, Fire TV,
and Ring devices worldwide by 2025.
2025—five years ahead of our
original target of 2030.
Our Journey
In 2021, we reached 85% renewable energy across our
business, with more than 12 gigawatts (GW) of renewable
energy production capacity across our global portfolio.
As of the end of 2021, Amazon had announced: Once these projects are fully operational, they are expected
to deliver up to 33,700 gigawatt-hours of energy annually—
the electricity output equivalent to powering more than
274 105
3 million U.S. homes for one year.
Global renewable Utility-scale wind
These projects helped power more than 30 million
energy projects and solar projects
megawatt-hours (MWh) of electricity used by Amazon in
2021 and led to a 23% reduction in our carbon emissions
from purchased electricity from 2020 to 2021.
A South African Solar Farm Energy Storage Solutions
24K+
In 2021, Amazon’s first operational solar project in Keeping the power grid supplied when the sun isn’t shining
Solar panels
South Africa started to supply clean, renewable and the wind isn’t blowing demands innovative solutions to
energy to the grid that powers AWS data centers, continually generate carbon-free electricity. In 2021, Amazon
contributing to the country’s 2030 renewable 25K announced our first solar energy and storage projects ,
energy goals. Located in the Northern Cape which provide the infrastructure required to store solar
province, the 10-megawatt (MW) solar project energy generated when the sun is shining. These utility-scale
Tons carbon emissions
is expected to generate up to 28,000 MWh of projects help enable electricity grids to operate with carbon-
avoided annually
renewable energy per year, which is equivalent to free electricity when the sun isn’t shining.
the annual electricity consumption of over 8,000
average South African homes.
Making the Grid Greener Through
The solar project consists of more than 24,000 Renewable Energy Optimization
solar panels that track the sun from east to west,
rotating on a single point. Altogether, the project As our use of renewable energy grows, we monitor the
covers an area of 20 hectares in the Northern operational performance of hundreds of global projects to
Cape, where sunlight is an abundant resource. help us achieve our renewable energy goals. We employ a
The project’s design will avoid an estimated team dedicated to renewable energy optimization (REO) ,
25,000 tons of carbon emissions annually, the which leverages AWS Cloud technology to improve the
equivalent of removing 5,400 cars from the road performance of Amazon’s portfolio of wind and solar
in South Africa. projects. Our REO team developed an end-to-end solution
using AWS services to perform near real-time monitoring of
The solar project is majority-owned by local our renewable energy projects. The team used AWS Internet
women and operated by a fully South African- of Things-based architecture to create a highly secure,
owned company. The project has reduced waste reliable, scalable, and low-cost solution that manages data
by donating unused materials from construction, from hundreds of renewable energy projects. This enables
including pallets and electrical cable drums, to us to rapidly identify and troubleshoot inefficiencies and find
local furniture businesses and special skills schools more opportunities for greater impact.
to support small and medium-sized businesses.
By 2025, we expect these optimizations will deliver the
same amount of additional clean energy as a new 150-MW
wind farm.
Learn more about our global renewable
energy projects on our website .
Incorporating Our Approach In Corporate Offices Informed by an active and ongoing engagement process with
Arlington County, we are reintroducing native plant species
Sustainability We leverage industry best practices and emerging We use innovative design to build sustainability into our and creating a green, walkable, safe, and enjoyable community
technologies in facility design and operation to drive physical campuses. Energy-efficient lighting, low-flow park for employees, nearby residents, and visitors. We are also
Into Our Buildings reductions across carbon, energy, water, and waste. We water fixtures, composting, and recycling are common expanding the planted area by 5,500 square feet, bringing the
focus on the direct emissions that result from powering features in our corporate offices. Many of our office total area of public space at PenPlace to 2.5 acres.
our buildings, as well as the indirect emissions from buildings offer plazas and open green spaces for public
the embodied carbon—the carbon emitted during use, along with green roofs that provide outdoor amenity In addition, we are making it easier for pedestrians and
Amazon operates thousands of
construction—in our building materials and equipment. space while supporting ecological functions like stormwater cyclists to navigate the campus. Protected bike lanes connect
world-class facilities that serve our We use proven technologies to enhance efficiency across management. We also offer plug-in electric vehicle (EV) PenPlace to the comprehensive local bike transit plan,
our facilities and pilot new ideas, including innovations charging stations and bicycle parking to encourage low- ensuring our presence helps push forward Arlington’s own
global employees, customers, and
supported by The Climate Pledge Fund, to transition our carbon transportation for employees and visitors. sustainability ambitions.
communities. We strive to reduce
buildings to net-zero carbon.
the environmental impacts of our In 2021, we unveiled our latest plans for sustainable design
enhancements at PenPlace , the second phase of our In Fulfillment Facilities
buildings while creating a positive
HQ2 development in Virginia. From the start, sustainability
experience for the people who
has been a key element of our HQ2 campus and we Our fulfillment facilities are state-of-the-art warehouses
occupy them. are committed to achieving Leadership in Energy and where we process orders for our customers. In 2021, we
Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum certification, the conducted pilot projects at several new fulfillment facilities
highest sustainability certification for a development issued using a low-carbon concrete technology produced by
by the U.S. Green Building Council. CarbonCure, a company Amazon has invested in through The
Climate Pledge Fund. CarbonCure’s technology enables the
Once completed, we aim for PenPlace to achieve a concrete industry to sequester carbon permanently in fresh
minimum of: concrete, reducing embodied carbon at new construction sites.
• 10% reduction in the amount of embodied carbon We also launched pilot projects at fulfillment facilities in
compared to typical construction practices, followed North America to improve our on-site water management.
by a commitment to offset 100% of the remaining This involved retrofitting sites to divert excess water runoff
embodied carbon. away from stormwater drains and toward ponds that exist
on each facility’s property.
• 50% reduction in water consumption beyond national
standards, using low-flow fixtures and reclaimed water. In addition, many of our fulfillment facilities throughout
the U.S., Europe, and India are powered by on-site solar,
• 30% energy savings below the American Society of Heating, where a rooftop installation can power up to 80% of the
Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) facility’s energy use. As of 2021, 115 of our global fulfillment
baseline, with electrified building systems powered by 100% facilities have rooftop solar installations and we continue to
In Our Stores Amazon Sustainability Ambassadors of new Amazon employees. In Tennessee, more
than 35 Ambassadors hosted an event at a nearby
Sustainable building design is also important in our physical Sustainability Ambassadors are sustainability- middle school to plant a total of 44 trees that will
stores. In early 2022, our Amazon Fresh location in Seattle, minded Amazon employees who work to amplify help sequester carbon and divert stormwater at
Washington, became the world’s first grocery store to pursue global, companywide efforts at the local level. the school campus. Ambassadors in Singapore also
Zero Carbon Certification from the International Living Ambassadors lead projects on Amazon campuses led a tree-planting event to support the Singapore
Future Institute, a leading nonprofit dedicated to advancing and create virtual engagement opportunities to Botanic Gardens.
sustainable building practices. inspire fellow employees, both at work and at home.
The program also serves as a community for sharing Ambassadors in our corporate offices are focused on
More than a dozen upgrades were incorporated throughout best practices among teams in different settings sustainability initiatives that can be done virtually in
the development of the store, including transitioning to a and locations. any setting. In 2021, 5,600 Ambassadors across the
CO2-based refrigeration system that reduces greenhouse globe participated in the Four-Week Sustainability
gas emissions by 38 metric tons per year compared to a Since launching in 2018, the Sustainability Challenge, picking up litter or eating plant-based
conventional system. The store also uses steel byproducts Ambassador program has transformed into a foods, among other everyday actions that help
in the concrete floor to reduce embodied carbon by nearly collaborative network across 1,250 global locations. promote a more sustainable lifestyle. As part of
40% compared to a standard concrete floor. As of 2021, more than 8,900 Amazon employees the challenge, a group of participants in Europe
participate in the program—up from 7,500 in collected more than 2,500 pieces of plastic waste
Other key features include a fully electric kitchen space 2020. In 2021, we launched new chapters in India, in just 15 days.
that reduces the need for fossil fuel combustion in the Brazil, Australia, Mexico, the United Arab Emirates,
store, electrifying the store using 100% renewable and beyond. For the second year in a row, Sustainability
electricity sourced from Amazon’s renewable energy Ambassadors led Amazon’s Sustainability Summit, a
projects, incorporation of low-flow fixtures in restrooms virtual educational event available to all employees
and kitchens to reduce water use, and free EV charging Driving Local Impact, Globally to learn more about our corporate sustainability
for customers. As a result of these upgrades, we expect Ambassadors who work at physical sites, like programs and partnerships. The event drew 13,000
the store will save nearly 185 tons of CO2e each year—the fulfillment centers, focus on opportunities to registrations across 23 virtual sessions in 2021 and
equivalent of driving around the Earth 18 times in a standard engage fellow employees through on-site initiatives. featured speakers from Amazon’s sustainability
passenger vehicle.1 In 2021, Ambassadors at a facility in Wisconsin leadership team, Sustainability Ambassador
partnered with a local waste vendor to install chapters, and signatories of The Climate Pledge.
Our Whole Foods Market stores feature similar sustainability recycling stations for employees to deposit used The summit also featured our second crowdsourcing
benefits and upgrades. At the end of 2021, 200 EV charging electronics. In Italy, an Ambassador spearheaded challenge for Amazon employees to present
stations were available in Whole Foods Market parking lots an effort to include sustainability information in innovative ideas on sustainability, which received
throughout the U.S. Nearly 50 Whole Foods Market stores new hire orientation programming for thousands 89 submissions.
utilized refrigeration systems that rely on natural refrigerants
with low global warming potentials and over 70 Whole
Foods Market stores had solar rooftops.
Decarbonizing Our Approach In 2021, more than 100 million packages were delivered to Additionally, we are using micromobility technologies to
our customers’ doorsteps across Europe with a fleet of over transform the way packages are delivered, particularly in
Transportation One of the ways we are decarbonizing our transportation 3,000 electric delivery vans and other zero-emission vehicles. urban settings. In 2021, more than 5 million shipments across
network is by deploying technical solutions including zero- Additionally, over half a million packages were delivered to 17 European cities and 30 million packages in Manhattan,
emission vehicles and low-carbon fuels. We are preparing our customers’ doorsteps in North America with EVs. More New York, were delivered to our customers’ doorsteps using
our systems and facilities to accommodate the large- than 100 Amazon delivery stations across North America cargo bikes and walkers. Our global bicycle fleet includes
Delivering for our global customers
scale adoption of zero-emission vehicles in the coming and Europe are equipped for EV usage, and all new delivery traditional bicycles and electric bikes connected to cargo
requires Amazon to rely on a variety
years, which will require new refueling infrastructure and stations are designed to meet the needs of our current and trailers that can carry up to 45 packages at a time. More than
of transportation solutions for long operating patterns. future electric delivery fleets. 400 cargo bikes are used to make deliveries for Whole Foods
Market and Amazon Fresh to customers in Manhattan and
and short distances. Decarbonizing
Achieving our net-zero carbon goal will also demand long- Brooklyn in New York City.
our transportation network is a
term solutions that have not yet been invented, along with
key part of meeting The Climate an abundant supply of clean energy sources to power those
technologies. Knowing this, we are investing in breakthrough
Pledge by 2040 and making 50%
innovations through The Climate Pledge Fund and forging
of Amazon shipments net-zero
industry partnerships to accelerate change. Zero-Emission Transportation in Paris
carbon by 2030, which is why
we are actively transforming our We announced in November 2021 that, in the city of Paris,
Deploying Solutions Across two-thirds of our shipments are delivered using zero-emission
fleet network and operations.
Our Network transportation. This was achieved through a combination of EVs,
cargo bikes, and carts for deliveries on foot through our Delivery
Last-Mile Delivery Service Partners—all of which contribute to decarbonizing the
We use a range of delivery methods to reduce emissions on last-mile delivery process.
last-mile routes to our customers’ doorsteps. These include
electric delivery vehicles and micromobility technologies that
can be used for shorter journeys.
In 2019, we ordered 100,000 custom electric delivery
100M+ 5M+
vehicles from Rivian—the largest order ever of electric
delivery vehicles. We rolled out the first of these vehicles
Packages delivered Shipments delivered in 2021. We expanded our European electric delivery fleet
across Europe with in Europe using with an order for 1,800 electric vans from Mercedes-Benz,
zero-emission vehicles micromobility solutions
a signatory of The Climate Pledge. In India, we are adding
10,000 electric vehicles (EVs) to our existing fleet, including
30M two-wheeler, three-wheeler, and four-wheeler vehicles built
by local manufacturers. We are also piloting electric delivery
Middle-Mile and Long- We also purchased sustainable fuel made from waste Additionally, we are driving policies that support the adoption
Distance Transportation cooking oil to reduce shipping emissions in ocean shipping. of green technology around the world. In May 2021, we
When it comes to transporting goods over longer distances, This purchase was estimated to have reduced emissions by supported a policy proposal to the Japanese government for
we rely on transportation across roads, rail, air, and water, approximately 20,000 metric tons of CO2e in 2021, which the adoption of zero-emission vehicles in the delivery industry
each of which offers few existing low-carbon solutions that will be continued in 2022. We continue to advance public by the Japan Climate Leaders’ Partnership . The government
can be immediately deployed at scale. We are promoting policies at the national and multinational levels that will set a new target of 100% electric or fuel cell vehicles in new
the use of low-carbon solutions in the near term while also support the decarbonization of the maritime shipping sector. delivery vehicle sales by 2040. It also introduced intensive
investing in emerging technologies and collaborating with measures to adopt EVs over the next decade through the
others to accelerate cross-sector innovation in middle-mile Green Growth Strategy in June 2021.
and long-distance transportation for the future. Partnering to Support Solutions of
the Future
In North America and Europe, we increased our total rail load
volume and expanded our Amazon and leased rail assets We know that moving to more-sustainable transportation “ B y joining the First Movers Coalition, we
in 2021. We started deploying battery EV trucks across our will require innovative solutions and sustainable fuels that are sending a clear signal that companies
heavy commercial trucking fleets and began switching to do not yet exist. Through The Climate Pledge Fund , like Amazon are seeking long-term,
vehicles that use alternative fuel sources, like compressed we are helping inventors and entrepreneurs move faster low-carbon fuel solutions to help us
natural gas (CNG) trucks. As of 2021, we had ordered more with an investment portfolio that includes breakthrough achieve net-zero carbon by 2040. We
than 3,000 CNG vehicles, and we are procuring millions of transportation technologies, such as those being developed welcome the Biden administration and
gallons of renewable natural gas created from waste stocks by Rivian, BETA Technologies, Resilient Power, Amogy, the World Economic Forum’s decision to
to power them, significantly reducing carbon emissions and Infinium, and ZeroAvia. launch the First Movers Coalition, which
particulate matter pollutants. will help further accelerate our efforts
In 2021, we helped launch Cargo Owners for Zero to decarbonize our operations through
We are investing in alternative fuels, such as sustainable Emission Vessels (coZEV) with the Aspen Institute. Through real business change and innovation.”
aviation fuel, which reduces carbon emissions in flight up coZEV, Amazon is supporting initiatives to increase the
to 20% over standard aviation fuel. Amazon secured more availability of zero-emission technologies and fuels while Andy Jassy Amazon FASTforward
than 5 million gallons of low-carbon aviation fuel in 2020 gaining support from shipping lines, cargo owners, ports, and President and CEO, Amazon
and agreed to purchase up to 6.5 million gallons in 2021 other organizations that can enable energy transition. We Amazon works with thousands of external transportation
and 2022. We also joined the Sustainable Aviation Buyers also became a founding private sector member of the First providers, from individual truck owners to multinational
Alliance in 2021 and became one of the group’s founding Movers Coalition to lead decarbonization of the maritime logistics service companies. As part of our work to
members to drive investment and send market signals in shipping industry. The coalition brings global companies decarbonize our transportation network, we want to
support of sustainable aviation fuel. together to harness their purchasing power and supply make clean technologies available and accessible to all
chains to create early markets for innovative clean energy of them. In 2021, we held our first virtual transportation
technologies that are key for tackling the climate crisis. With sustainability summit , FASTforward, focused on Future
this launch, we announced our commitment to use ships with Advanced Sustainable Transportation. The summit
zero-emission fuels for at least 10% of the volume of our brought together industry leaders, fleet operators and
goods shipped internationally by 2030 and 100% by 2040. manufacturers, researchers, and policy experts from
Avoiding and Our Approach
Managing Waste The best way to reduce waste is to avoid creating it in
the first place, through waste-prevention programs and
optimized inventory management. Reuse is the next
best option, and is achieved by repairing, repurposing,
Beyond Amazon’s commitment to
and donating usable items—all actions we’ve developed
decarbonize our operations, we
programs to support. We then rely on recycling and
are working to send less material composting to enable the recovery of raw materials,
and as a last resort, we seek to recover energy from
to landfills and more back into
any waste material that must be sent to landfill.
the circular economy loop. The
majority of the waste we produce
Reimagining the Product Lifecycle
comes through our customer
Through Amazon Second Chance
fulfillment operations, from
How to shop pre-owned items: tablets, video games and consoles, Bluetooth devices, and
materials that become obsolete in Through Amazon Second Chance , we provide customers more, in exchange for an Amazon Gift Card. Traded-in
our supply chain, or from surplus with ways to responsibly retire their products. Customers in Amazon Renewed offers refurbished products such as Amazon devices are processed and resold to new owners,
the U.S., UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Sweden, electronics, home appliances, and more. All products are and any devices not qualified for resale are recycled through
inventory, including items that are
and Japan can access a range of services to recycle, repair, professionally inspected and tested to work and look like an Amazon-approved recycler.
overstocked, returned, cosmetically or trade in their items, as well as shop for like-new and new and are backed by the Amazon Renewed Guarantee.
damaged, or near expiration. refurbished products. We also provide guidance on the For electronic equipment that cannot be repaired or traded
responsible disposal of Amazon packaging. Amazon Warehouse gives a second life to products in, customers can recycle their items free of charge through
returned by customers. Each product undergoes a rigorous Amazon Device Recycling in the U.S. and through various
20-point inspection process before being sold at a discount. recycling initiatives in Europe. These programs route
electronic equipment to recycling partners and verify that
Pre-Owned Amazon Devices provides customers with they are recycled and repurposed.
access to certified refurbished, like-new Amazon devices
that have been screened and tested by Amazon and are
backed with the same limited warranty as a new device. How to repair items:
Free product support provides customers with technical
How to recycle or trade in products: assistance for select items, encouraging customers to fix
items and maximize their lifespan before replacing or
Amazon Trade-In allows customers in the U.S., UK, and disposing of them. In the U.S., repair support is also available
Germany to trade in thousands of eligible electronics, such through iFixit .
Avoiding Waste Through CityServe to anaerobic digestion facilities through an organic waste
Product Donations recycling system called Grind2Energy. The Grind2Energy
CityServe, based in California, is one example system has helped to divert 12,500 tons of food waste at
At our global fulfillment centers, we use software to of a Good360 Community Redistribution Whole Foods Market stores since 2014. As a result, we have
identify and sort eligible items that are fit for donation. Partner; it works with a network of local prevented nearly 9,000 metric tons of CO2e from entering
We partner with local community organizations to collect churches to deliver necessities to thousands the atmosphere and produced enough clean, renewable
these items from Amazon facilities and distribute them to of individuals and families. energy to power over 2,500 U.S. homes for a month.
people in need. By donating surplus inventory to charitable
organizations, we keep usable products out of the waste In 2021, our donations enabled CityServe
stream and help strengthen our local communities. to provide personal care supplies to more Recycling Solutions Across
than 20,000 people. CityServe staff and Our Operations
Many of our product donations are generated through our volunteers assembled “blessing bags” full
Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA) donations program, which of items donated by Amazon, including Corrugated board is the most common material that
automates the process for Amazon selling partners to donate toothpaste, toothbrushes, hand towels, and flows through our fulfillment center operations, and we
their overstocked or returned items. The service requires no disposable masks. The bags were distributed work with third-party recycling haulers to remove excess
additional action from selling partners, allowing Amazon to to individuals and families without housing. corrugate from our facilities for off-site recycling. Many
easily scale product donations through our existing logistics. of these haulers also supply Amazon with the packaging
materials that we use for customer shipments, converting
We distribute the majority of our product donations through waste material recovered from Amazon operations into
Good360, a nonprofit that works with a network of 100,000 new, recycled packaging.
charity partners in the U.S. Through our partnership with by 50% across our U.S. and Europe operations by 2030. 2021. All of our UK grocery stores have a donation
Good360, Amazon product donations are distributed to low- We became a member of the Food Loss and Waste 2030 partner in place that helps deliver surplus food to charities Not all the materials we use can be easily recycled with
income households, foster families, individuals with special Champions through the U.S. Environmental Protection around London. Similarly, all of our U.S. grocery stores have current systems, so we look for innovative solutions to
needs or disabilities, seniors, veterans, immigrants, and more. Agency in 2020, and extended our commitment to reducing a donation partner. recycle these challenging materials. One example is plastic
In Europe, we partner directly with more than 100 charities food waste to our Europe operations in 2021. To achieve film, which is not commonly accepted through municipal
and local organizations to distribute product donations. this, we are optimizing our food inventory management For food that can’t be donated, we turn to processes recycling programs. We have on-site plastic film recycling
systems to minimize waste from the outset and prioritizing that avoid landfills, such as composting and anaerobic systems at many Amazon operations facilities across North
Since 2019, Amazon has contributed more than 100 million ways to avoid landfills. digestion. In 2021, we diverted 27,000 tons of food through America and Europe, enabling us to convert plastic film into
products to our global charity partners in North America, composting and anaerobic digestion across our worldwide bags made of 100% recycled material.
Europe, Australia, and Japan. We are continuing to expand Wherever possible, we donate surplus food to individuals and operations. All Amazon Fresh stores operating in the U.S.
our product donations program globally by adding new families who need it most through community redistribution have composting programs for food that cannot be donated, We continue to explore alternative solutions for other
locations in the Middle East, North Africa, and South America. programs. In 2021, we donated 85 million pounds of and we are expanding our on-site composting capabilities materials that are challenging to recycle. In 2021, we
food—equivalent to more than 70 million meals—through across our facilities. completed a pilot to recycle and repair damaged bags used to
Feeding America in the U.S. Feeding America is a network sort and stow items in our fulfillment operations into reusable
Redirecting Food Waste of food banks, pantries, soup kitchens, shelters, and other At our Whole Foods Market stores, we have active materials. Additionally, we work with our shipping label
community-based agencies that helps Amazon maximize the composting programs at nearly 470 locations and collectively suppliers in several European locations to recycle the silicone
Improving Our
Our Approach
Packaging Amazon customers want right-sized, recyclable packaging
that minimizes waste and ensures damage-free delivery.
We work to reinvent and simplify our sustainable packaging
options using a science-based approach that combines
Packaging plays a critical role in
lab testing, machine learning, materials science, and
the customer delivery experience,
manufacturing partnerships to scale sustainable change
and Amazon is committed to across the packaging supply chain.
delivering products safely and
sustainably. Since 2015, we have Eliminating Packaging Where Possible
invested in materials, processes,
and technologies that have reduced Frustration-Free Packaging (FFP) is Amazon’s flagship
program designed to reinvent the packaging experience. Partnering for Better Packaging Cold Groceries, Delivered
per-shipment packaging weight
FFP products offer more-sustainable packaging that is More Sustainably
by 38% and eliminated over easy to open, fully recyclable, and capable of shipping Some products are more difficult to ship than others.
1.5 million tons of packaging. without additional packaging protection. In 2021, we began Stemware, for example, is fragile and frequently arrives In 2021, U.S. grocery teams launched new curbside-
offering incentives to vendors that convert their packaging with multiple layers of padding to prevent damage. This recyclable packaging to replace nonrecyclable insulation
to FFP to encourage more vendors to adopt these best-in- additional material can make for a frustrating customer that protects chilled items in grocery deliveries. This has
class standards. We also offer additional incentives when experience and doesn’t always protect the product. eliminated the annual need for 1,500 tons of natural
those changes include reductions in total cubic volume. cotton fiber and 7,500 tons of nonrecyclable mixed
This generates less packaging waste for customers and To demonstrate that e-commerce packaging can be plastic that was previously required to safely deliver
enables more packages per delivery vehicle. By the end both minimal and effective, we facilitated a complete chilled or frozen groceries from Amazon Fresh and
of 2021, more than 2 million products qualified under redesign of stemware packaging for Lenox, a well- Whole Foods Market.
our FFP programs. known brand that has specialized in tableware and
glassware for over 130 years. It is particularly challenging to design new solutions
that maintain adequate insulation properties to keep
This novel packaging design includes changing product products chilled. Our innovative packaging uses layers
orientation to optimize for space. It also includes a of tissue to provide both durability and insulation
protective corrugate insert, replacing the need for without sacrificing recyclability.
bubble wrap, further reducing plastic waste and
improving the customer experience. The result is a fully Customers were with us for every step of this journey.
recyclable package that uses 83% less material weight
and 78% less volume without compromising protection Learn more about how we tested this packaging in
of the item inside. several U.S. cities and incorporated improvements into
Optimizing Materials Where In Europe, we switched from single-use plastic delivery bags when smaller products are suitable for flexible packaging, Algorithm Packaging Efficiencies
Packaging Is Necessary to recyclable paper delivery bags and cardboard envelopes such as padded mailers and bags, which are up to 75%
for orders shipped from fulfillment centers in 2021. We also lighter than similar-sized boxes. Over the past five years,
When additional Amazon packaging is required to ship a removed a wide range of single-use plastic products from these algorithms have allowed us to reduce the use of
Size with old algorithm
product, we strive to optimize that packaging for increased our European stores. In Australia, we replaced all single-use corrugated boxes by over 35%. 2,133 inch3
recyclability along with reduced waste and carbon. We are air pillows with 100% recyclable paper material to protect
transitioning to materials that are compatible with local goods during shipping. Amazon also became a founding In 2021, we deployed data-science algorithms to optimize
paper and plastic recycling streams where we operate. We member of the India Plastics Pact after removing single-use, the number and size of boxes used for 12 geographies
also support initiatives to expand the availability of curbside thin film plastics from Amazon packaging throughout India around the world. These algorithms—which help our
recycling infrastructure to the public through investments in The fulfillment centers in 2020. fulfillment centers maintain the right mix of box sizes—
Recycling Partnership and the Closed Loop Infrastructure Fund. now cover 65% of global box shipments, with plans to
scale to 97% in 2022.
In the U.S., we expanded the use of our recyclable paper Using Technology to Optimize
padded mailer, replacing nearly 70% of our mixed material Packaging Type and Fit We also introduced advanced fitting algorithms designed
bubble mailers in 2021. We also improved the composition to reduce packaging specifically for shipments with
of our single-use plastic packaging to use less material and We use a range of boxes and mailers across our fulfillment multiple items. These new algorithms calculate the
incorporate more recycled content. In 2021, we increased the network, and for every shipment that requires packaging, we possible arrangements of products for best fit in a three-
recycled content of our plastic film bags from 25% to 50% use science-based systems to determine optimal packaging dimensional virtual package. Since launch, this technology
and that of our plastic padded bags from 15% to over 40%. sizes and types. This starts with using machine learning has downgraded the size or type of packaging for 7% of
Through these collective efforts, we avoided over 30,000 tons to identify products that can be delivered safely with less total shipments and we plan to deploy it globally in 2022.
of plastic across North America in 2021. material. Machine learning algorithms help us determine
34.7%
Size with new algorithm
External cube
Our Fulfillment Packaging Breakdown in 2021 1,393 inch3
reduction
Lower Waste
Corrugated Flexibles Shipment Zero Packaging
43% of shipments 49% of shipments 8% of shipments
locker
Boxes Padded Flexible Paperboard Unpadded Recyclable Paper No Amazon
Product Making Sustainable Shopping Simpler Additionally, in 2021, we launched 17 features and by 1,650 organizations since launching in July 2021.
experiments to increase the discoverability of Climate Pledge Guided Buying steers business customers to Climate Pledge
Sustainability As people change the way they shop and search for products Friendly products. This included a new Guided Buying tool Friendly products as the preferred procurement option by
that align with their values, Amazon is empowering our for Amazon Business Prime customers, designed to spotlight their organizations.
customers to make more informed shopping decisions Climate Pledge Friendly products. The tool has been adopted
every day.
As part of our mission to be Earth’s
most customer-centric company,
Our Approach
we are giving customers access to
Everyday Essentials, Consciously Created home, beauty, and other categories—all with product-
products that are more sustainable.
Through the Climate Pledge Friendly program, we are With Amazon Aware specific certifications, such as Global Recycled Standard for
This includes both our Amazon-
helping customers in the U.S. and Europe discover and shop recycled polyester content in apparel items.
branded products and the third- for more-sustainable products. To identify these products, In early 2022, Amazon launched Amazon Aware,
we partner with a wide range of trusted and transparent a new line of everyday essential items with third- Bedding and bath products use certified organic cotton
party items we offer that feature
external certifications . Qualifying products are labeled party certifications featured in our Climate Pledge and are certified by MADE IN GREEN by OEKO-TEX, which
sustainability certifications through
in shopping results and have additional sustainability Friendly program. verifies that products are tested for harmful substances
our Climate Pledge Friendly program. information on their product pages. and made in safer workplaces with reduced environmental
Amazon Aware helps customers in the U.S., Canada, and impacts. Household cleaners are made with U.S. Department
We also developed our own certification, Compact by Europe to shop for products made from materials such of Agriculture-certified, bio-based cleaning formulas.
Design , to identify products that have a more efficient as recycled polyester, organic cotton, and bio-based
design. By eliminating excess air, water, and packaging, ingredients. The line features products across apparel, Learn more about the launch of Amazon Aware .
products require less packaging and become more efficient
to ship. At scale, these small differences in product size and
weight lead to significant carbon-emission reductions.
Our Journey
Since we launched Climate Pledge Friendly in 2020, the
250K+ 36
number of products included in the program has grown
from 75,000 to more than 250,000 by the end of 2021.
Climate Pledge Participating external Search rates for these products have also increased
Friendly products certifications
significantly during the same time frame. In 2021, more than
370 million Climate Pledge Friendly units were shipped to
370M+ Amazon customers and we welcomed 20 new third-party
sustainability certifications to the program. See a full list of
Empowering Sustainable Businesses Hear From Climate Pledge Friendly
Certification Partners
In addition to helping shoppers find more-sustainable products,
Climate Pledge Friendly is encouraging more brands and selling Carbon neutral by ClimatePartner verifies that the carbon footprint of a product is
partners to join the program and grow our impact. continuously calculated and reduced, with any remaining emissions offset. The Carbon
neutral label has been on the market for more than a decade and is recognized as a
“We’re encouraged by Amazon’s Climate Pledge trustworthy certification by independent and governmental institutions.
Friendly program, its recognition that consumers
want to take an active role in helping our planet, “ People want to shop more consciously and Amazon is making
and its commitment to making it easier to shop that easier. ClimatePartner is proud to be part of this important
for sustainable options, such as our Nestlé Toll journey, providing transparency and credibility with its verification
House morsels.” of climate neutrality.”
Steve Presley Tristan Foerster
U.S. Market Head and CEO, Nestlé USA CEO and Co-Founder, ClimatePartner
EWG VERIFIED products are reviewed to ensure they are free from Environmental
Working Group (EWG)’s known chemicals of concern and adhere to strict health
standards. For almost 30 years, EWG has tracked chemical safety and warned
consumers about companies that use hazardous chemicals in items such as cosmetics
and other personal care products.
“ We are delighted that Amazon has selected EWG VERIFIED to
include in its effort to feature more-sustainable products as a way
to protect our climate. When Amazon shoppers see the Climate
Pledge Friendly label on a product that has earned the EWG
VERIFIED mark, they’ll know that it is also one of the products
identified as more sustainable on Amazon, in addition to meeting
our industry-leading benchmarks for health.”
Ken Cook
President, EWG
Sourcing Sustainable Materials The following set of sustainability commitments guide All 365 by Whole Foods Market brand chocolate bars, Leather
Amazon Private Brands and Whole Foods Market decisions chocolate chips, and baking chocolate are certified by Fair
In addition to offering more-sustainable choices, we want our for sourcing materials and ingredients: Trade USA, and in 2021, we transitioned all tea under the We are striving to source all leather for our Amazon Private
Amazon Private Brands to support responsible supply chains same brand to be certified by either Fair Trade USA or Brands apparel and shoe products from more-sustainable
and contribute to growing circular economies. From groceries Rainforest Alliance. In addition, all 365 by Whole Foods Market sources by the end of 2023. To achieve this, we will source
and cleaning supplies to fashion and devices, we carefully Animal Welfare packaged coffee is responsibly sourced and certified according from tanneries that meet the Leather Working Group’s
consider the materials and lifecycle impacts across our product to an approved third-party certification, including Rainforest bronze level award or higher.
categories by asking: How can these products be better? As retailers of animal-derived products, we recognize our Alliance, Fair Trade USA, or Fairtrade International. Whole
responsibility to uphold animal welfare within our supply Foods Market is also a member of Conservation International’s
chain. We expect our suppliers to uphold the Five Freedoms Sustainable Coffee Challenge, a collaborative effort of
Our Approach framework for animal welfare, which mandates freedom companies, governments, NGOs, research institutions, and
from hunger and thirst; freedom from discomfort; freedom others to transition the coffee sector to be more sustainable.
We are working to enhance the certification and traceability from pain, injury, or disease; freedom to express normal
of key raw materials and ingredients in our consumable behavior; and freedom from fear and distress. We expect
products. We also participate in industry partnerships and our suppliers to comply with all applicable laws and to take Cotton
working groups that drive greater adoption of sustainable a zero-tolerance approach to animal cruelty, abuse, and
and responsible practices. Additionally, we are increasing neglect. We encourage suppliers to continuously improve We are striving to source all cotton for our Amazon Private
the amount of recycled fiber used in many of our Amazon their animal welfare standards and practices, and to work Brands apparel products from more-sustainable sources by
Private Brands apparel products. toward recognized animal welfare certifications or industry the end of 2022. This includes using cotton sourced from
guidelines that include welfare provisions. For information recycled materials, from farms certified as producing organic
about animal welfare at Whole Foods Market, see our cotton, or through Better Cotton , a global nonprofit that
Meat Department Quality Standards . aims to transform the cotton supply chain by developing
Better Cotton as a sustainable mainstream commodity.
Cocoa, Coffee, and Tea
Eggs
Amazon is committed to sourcing cocoa, coffee, and tea
that is certified against sustainability standards by Rainforest Amazon is committed to sourcing cage-free eggs in our
Alliance or Fairtrade International for our grocery Amazon grocery Private Brands whole shell egg products in North
Private Brands2 selection in Europe. For cocoa products in America and Europe. At Whole Foods Market, all shell and
Europe, other independently verified third-party schemes liquid eggs sold in our dairy cases and used in our kitchens and Amazon Private Brands consist of products across several
(such as Cocoa Horizons) may also be used, subject to review bakeries in the U.S. go beyond cage-free and are audited to category types, including apparel, grocery, home, electronics,
and approval. Most of our Private Brands ground, whole bean, one of four production systems to meet Whole Foods Market’s and more. Explore our Private Brands on Amazon.com .
and pods coffee products in North America are also certified Animal Welfare Standards for Laying Hens . At Whole Foods
by Rainforest Alliance, Fairtrade International, or Fair Trade Market in Canada, all eggs come from cage-free hens.
USA, and we expect the remaining selection to transition
Man-Made Cellulosic Fibers Pork
We are striving to source all man-made cellulosic fibers— In addition to complying with the European restrictions on
including rayon, viscose, lyocell, and modal—for our Amazon the use of gestation crates, Amazon is committed to sourcing
Private Brands apparel products from more-sustainable sources gestation crate-free pork by 2025 in our grocery Private Brands
by the end of 2022. We use the nonprofit Canopy’s fresh pork products in North America. At Whole Foods Market,
tools and reports to help avoid fibers sourced from all pork sold in the Meat Department is also crate-free and
endangered forests, endangered species’ habitats, or other certified by the Global Animal Partnership—a nonprofit alliance
controversial sources. of producers, retailers, animal advocates, and scientists that
certifies producers’ animal welfare practices to more than 100
animal welfare standards. See Whole Foods Market’s Meat
Palm Oil Department Quality Standards for more information.
Amazon uses palm oil certified against sustainability
standards in our Private Brands food and nonfood products Recycled Fabrics
in North America and Europe. In a small number of cases,
palm oil credits may be used to cover small volumes and We are increasing the use of recycled fabrics in Amazon
complex derivatives. We revisit these cases annually with Private Brands apparel products, including moving from
applicable suppliers and agree on plans to transition to conventional to recycled polyester, and launching products
physically certified palm oil where possible. In addition, 100% made from innovative recycled fibers.
of 365 by Whole Foods Market brand food items containing
palm oil, palm kernel oil, palm fruit oil, and palm shortening or higher. For single-ingredient farmed seafood, Amazon Learn more about our Restricted Substance List , which
are produced using sustainable oil products . Seafood grocery Private Brands products must be certified by the provides an extensive list of chemicals we seek to avoid in
Aquaculture Stewardship Council, certified organic by EU Amazon Private Brands baby, household cleaning, personal
Amazon is committed to sourcing seafood that is certified or organic, Naturland, or other approved schemes, or certified care, and beauty products, and applies to all suppliers of
Paper rated against sustainability standards for our grocery Private 2 stars or higher by the Global Aquaculture Alliance’s Best these product categories in the U.S. and Europe.
Brands selection in North America and Europe, as well as Aquaculture Practices. All Whole Foods Market farm-raised
In North America and Europe, Amazon grocery Private throughout Whole Foods Market’s Seafood Department. fresh or frozen seafood meets our Responsibly Farmed Our Food Contact Materials Restricted Substance List
Brands are committed to sourcing paper products such For wild-caught seafood under these selections, single- standards, is traceable to the source, and requires third-party outlines the chemicals of concern and nonrecyclable
as paper towels, toilet paper, and facial tissue that are ingredient fresh, frozen, and canned products must be verification of water quality and dozens of other quality materials we prohibit in Amazon Kitchen food
certified against sustainability standards or as recycled by sourced from fisheries that are certified against sustainability standards. See Whole Foods Market’s Seafood Department contact packaging.
organizations such as the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), criteria by the Marine Stewardship Council Standard or rated Quality Standards for more information.
Sustainable Forestry Initiative, and Programme for the “Green” or “Yellow” by Monterey Bay Aquarium Seafood In addition, every food product sold by Whole Foods
Endorsement of Forest Certification. In addition, all 365 by Watch program. Amazon’s grocery Private Brands wild- Market must meet rigorous quality standards , which
Whole Foods Market paper products are either made from caught seafood products may also be part of a credible prohibit more than 230 preservatives, flavors, colors,
100% recycled materials or certified by FSC. fishery improvement program with a progress rating of C sweeteners, and other ingredients. Whole Foods Market
Designing Our Devices and Services Packaging Reliability Alexa
for Sustainability
In 2020, we committed to making Amazon device packaging We design our devices with best-in-class reliability models so We are making it easier for customers to understand their
Amazon devices and services are a part of everyday life 100% recyclable by 2023. Additionally, we are working that they are more resilient, last longer, and don’t need to be home energy use with the Alexa energy dashboard ,
for millions of customers around the world. They inform, to source 100% of the wood fiber in our packaging from replaced as often. We also release over-the-air software updates available in the U.S. The dashboard works with compatible
entertain, and connect our customers, and we are working responsibly managed forests or recycled sources. We have for our customers’ devices with feature and security updates. smart lights, plugs, switches, water heaters, thermostats,
hard to make our devices more sustainable. That includes made significant progress toward our goals, eliminating televisions, and Echo devices, allowing customers to easily
helping customers reduce their impact on the environment more than 29 million plastic bags from our device packaging estimate the energy used by these devices. Customers
through our products and services. between September 2020 and September 2021. For new Suppliers can also enable Alexa to help them conserve energy with
Echo, Fire TV Stick, Fire Tablet, and Kindle Paperwhite devices Hunches. For example, if Alexa has a Hunch that a customer
launched in 2021, 94%–98% of the packaging is made We work with our suppliers to encourage sustainability as a is away and forgot to turn off a light, Alexa can automatically
Our Approach of wood fiber-based materials from responsibly managed top priority. In 2021, we launched our Zero Waste to Landfill turn it off, helping customers save energy and reduce
forests or recycled sources, depending on the product. program for suppliers. Ten of our supplier sites responsible for carbon emissions.
We design our devices to be more sustainable by measuring the final assembly of some of our most popular Echo, Kindle,
and reducing carbon emissions at all stages of the product and Fire TV devices achieved UL’s Zero Waste to Landfill Silver
lifecycle, from how the devices are made to how they are Energy or Platinum certification—a significant step toward achieving Extending Our Impact
used and ultimately disposed of. We extend our impact our zero-waste ambitions. This certification indicates that
by delivering products and experiences to help customers In 2020, Amazon became the first consumer electronics waste has been handled in environmentally responsible ways, To drive change beyond our business, we look for ways to
manage their own environmental impact. company to commit to addressing the electricity used by our diverting more than 90% of a facility’s waste from landfill share learnings and innovations that have shaped the way
devices through renewable energy development, starting through methods other than waste to energy. we design our products. This allows others to leverage our
with our Echo devices. We are also making investments expertise and make more-sustainable products for their
Materials and Chemicals in additional wind and solar farm capacity that, by 2025, own customers. In early 2022, we published a paper called
will be equal to the energy use of Fire TV and Ring devices Climate Pledge Friendly Decarbonizing and Neutralizing the Use Phase of Connected
We incorporate recycled materials into many new Amazon worldwide. Combined, we expect these projects will produce Devices , focused on how we are integrating carbon-
devices. In 2021, we launched several Echo, Fire TV, Fire over 5 million megawatt-hours of clean energy per year— We partner with trusted and transparent external reduction strategies across the use phase of our devices.
Tablet, Kindle, and Smart Home devices and accessories that’s enough to power more than 400,000 homes. certifications to validate the sustainability of our products These strategies account for an estimated 10%–15% of the
that include up to 60% recycled molded plastic, up to and clearly communicate this to customers with the Climate overall carbon footprint of rechargeable battery-operated
100% recycled fabrics, up to 100% recycled aluminum, To accompany our investments in renewable energy, we also Pledge Friendly label. In 2020 and 2021, our Echo, Fire TV, devices and an estimated 60%–80% of the footprint of
and up to 70% recycled magnesium, depending on the continue to make our devices more energy efficient. We have Fire Tablet, Kindle Paperwhite, and Smart Home devices and plugged-in devices. At Amazon, we recognize that we cannot
product. We also incorporated 50% recycled plastic into been rolling out Low Power Mode to new devices, as well as accessories launched with the Climate Pledge Friendly solve this challenge alone, and we are eager to invite other
certain power adapters that ship with our devices. to older devices already in customers’ homes. By the end of label. Many of these products carry the Carbon Trust’s consumer electronics companies and connected device
2021, over 50% of all Echo and Fire TV devices in customers’ Reducing CO2 certification, demonstrating a reduction manufacturers to join the mission of driving to a net-zero
To advance the move to safer chemistry, we joined homes had Low Power Mode. We also launched a number of in the carbon emissions of a product year over year. The carbon use phase.
ChemFORWARD as a co-design partner. Through this new Fire Tablet, Fire TV, and Amazon Smart Home devices in Amazon Smart Thermostat is the first Amazon device to be
partnership, we are collaborating with industry peers to 2021 that were designed for energy efficiency and earned ECOLOGO Silver certified—a certification that demonstrates
proactively identify harmful chemicals and safer alternatives the ENERGY STAR certification. products meet standards that can reduce the environmental
Sustainability in Our Approach AWS also continually innovates on cooling efficiency. For delivered six projects constructed with recycled steel in 2021
example, we worked with our vendors to optimize the and will expand this to all future U.S. and European data
the Cloud We focus on efficiency across all aspects of our infrastructure, longevity and airflow performance of the cooling medium centers moving forward.
from the design of our data centers and hardware to used in our data center cooling systems. The new medium
modeling the performance of our operations for continuous provides twice the service life and allows air to pass through Concrete also contributes a large share of embodied carbon
enhanced efficiency. We are on a path to power our more easily than previous iterations, saving fan energy. This in data center construction, and AWS has multiple initiatives
AWS is the world’s most
operations with 100% renewable energy by 2025. These has significant impacts on building energy performance, to reduce the carbon impact of the concrete required. For
comprehensive and broadly
renewable energy investments help power our data centers, reducing the energy use of cooling equipment by 20%. example, our design standards now require concrete with a
adopted cloud offering, with as part of our commitment to reach net-zero carbon across 20% reduction in embodied carbon versus standard concrete
our operations by 2040. for new U.S. data centers, and we are expanding this
millions of global users depending
Predicting and Tracking Performance requirement globally.
on it every day. To build a
For AWS, operating sustainably also means reducing the We use advanced modeling methods, such as computational
sustainable business for our amount of water we use to cool our data centers. Our holistic fluid dynamics tools, to optimize our data center design.
approach minimizes both energy and water consumption in This allows us to fully understand how the data center
customers and for the world we all
our operations and guides the development of our water use will perform before it is ever built, enabling us to optimize
share, we are designing data centers
strategy for each AWS Region where we operate. for higher reliability and energy efficiency in our systems.
that provide the efficient, resilient Once our data centers are operational, real-time, physics-
service our customers expect while In addition, we work to reduce the carbon emitted during the based models allow us to further improve and optimize our
extraction, manufacturing, and transportation of materials designs. We build these custom models using AWS services
minimizing our environmental
to data center construction sites. Reducing this embodied and weather datasets from the Amazon Sustainability
footprint—and theirs. carbon offers a significant opportunity to cut our overall Data Initiative to predict system performance for our sites
emissions from data centers. and track their performance against how they should
be operating.
Energy Efficiency
Reducing Embodied Carbon
We are using innovation to improve power efficiency in
multiple ways, including our investment in AWS-designed In addition to emissions from our energy usage, AWS
chips and the AWS Nitro System. For instance, AWS- addresses a wide range of indirect emissions—including
designed Graviton3 is our most power-efficient general- those associated with the construction of our data centers.
purpose processor. Graviton3-based Elastic Compute Cloud Steel is one of the largest contributors of embodied carbon
(EC2) instances use up to 60% less energy for the same in the structure of AWS data centers and we are lowering
3.6x 5x performance than non-Graviton EC2 instances. With the these emissions by working with mills using electric arc
world’s increasing need for computing and as machine furnace production processes. Unlike conventional steel
learning has become mainstream, continually innovating produced from primary materials, coal, and gas, our suppliers
AWS is 3.6 times more AWS is up to five times
energy efficient than the more energy efficient than at the chip level will be critical to sustainably powering the are using up to 100% recycled content and are powered by
Moving to AWS Can Help Significantly Lower Carbon AWS Customer Carbon Footprint Tool In addition, historical carbon emissions data is available
based on a customer’s AWS use from January 2020
Studies by 451 Research , part of S&P Global Market Intelligence, have shown that AWS’ As AWS continues to invest in sustainability across our onward. This data includes Scope 1 and Scope 2
infrastructure is more efficient than on-premises data centers. AWS is 3.6 times more energy infrastructure, many of our customers have asked us emissions. Scope 1 emissions come directly from a
efficient than the median of U.S. enterprise data centers surveyed and up to five times more to help measure the carbon footprint of their AWS company’s operations, while Scope 2 emissions come
energy efficient than the average in Europe. A similar study that surveyed organizations in workloads—both to understand how moving to AWS from the generation of purchased energy, such as the
Japan, South Korea, Singapore, Australia, and India found that, on average, moving to the reduces their carbon footprint and to report their electricity used to power Amazon facilities.
cloud was up to five times more energy efficient than using their on-premises data centers. overall footprint.
The customer carbon footprint tool uses carbon data
After analyzing several regions, 451 Research also found that AWS can lower customers’ Our new customer carbon footprint tool uses simple that meets the widely adopted international standard of
workload carbon footprints by nearly 80% compared to surveyed enterprise data centers, visualizations to show customers their historical carbon the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which supplies the world’s
and up to 96% once AWS is powered with 100% renewable energy—a target we are on emissions, evaluate related trends as their use of AWS most widely used greenhouse gas accounting standards.
path to meet by 2025. evolves, estimate emissions avoided by using AWS When signed into the AWS Billing console, customers can
instead of an on-premises data center, and review view their carbon emissions data by geographical location
forecasted emissions based on their current usage. and by AWS service, such as EC2 and Amazon Simple
Storage Service (Amazon S3). They can also measure
The forecast shows how customers’ footprints will change changes in their carbon footprint over time, as they
as Amazon stays on path to powering our operations with deploy new resources in the cloud.
100% renewable energy by 2025, five years earlier than
the original target of 2030, and drives toward net-zero
carbon by 2040.
Water Stewardship in Data Centers Community Water Programs São Paulo, Brazil. These completed projects have restored
Water is a key resource we share with those who live where 365 hectares of land and increased water supply availability
Amazon knows water is a precious resource. Our holistic we operate, so we look for opportunities to return water by 45 million gallons per year.
approach minimizes both energy and water consumption to these communities. For example, we partnered with the
in our data center operations and guides our water use City of Umatilla and the West Extension Irrigation District Through partnerships with Water.org and WaterAid in India
strategy for each AWS Region. This starts with evaluating to deliver water to farmers in Oregon. Instead of going and Indonesia, we initially intended to provide clean water to
climate patterns, local water management and availability, to a wastewater treatment plant, our clean cooling water 165,000 people. By the time these partnerships concluded in
and opportunities to avoid using potable water sources goes into a canal that delivers the water to farmers for use early 2022, we surpassed our goal and provided clean water
whenever possible. We are committed to conserving and in irrigation. With this project, we reuse up to 96% of the and sanitation to over 250,000 community members. In 2022,
reusing water, both in our on-site operations and by working wastewater we discharge from our data centers in this region. we began supporting a new set of projects, which include
with private and public entities to support water availability wetland creation in the Thames River Basin in England and
in communities where we operate data centers. In 2021, we funded watershed restoration efforts by water quality projects in the Chesapeake Bay watershed in
The Nature Conservancy in Cape Town, South Africa, and the U.S.
Evaporative Cooling Recycled Water
Our preferred cooling strategy for data centers uses We evaluate the opportunity to reduce our consumption
evaporative technologies. We analyze the weather in each of potable water and are actively expanding our use of
region and monitor our cooling system, which is designed nonpotable and recycled water for cooling purposes. In
to maximize environmental cooling and minimize water use. certain regions, we work directly with utilities and regulators
During the hottest months of the year, we have optimized to obtain approval for the use of recycled water in direct
systems to minimize water usage. Outside air is cooled evaporative cooling technology. We are continuing to work
through an evaporative process and pushed into the server with water utilities in various regions to expand this recycled
rooms to keep hardware at stable operating temperatures. water infrastructure. Through these actions, we are actively
With this design, even our largest data centers at full contributing to sustainable water solutions by reducing
capacity would use, on average, about the same water in our impact on the local potable water supply for the
a year as only 25 U.S. households. During cooler months, communities where we operate.
where possible, outside air is supplied directly to the data
center without needing to be cooled.
On-Site Water Treatment
We are constantly innovating the design of our cooling We use on-site, modular water-treatment systems in
systems to further reduce water usage. We are installing multiple regions, which allow us to remove scale-forming
sensors that provide real-time water-use data to operators minerals and reuse water for more cycles. Increasing our
and sustainability teams. By analyzing this data, we can “cycles of concentration” contributes to reducing the water
identify opportunities to reduce water usage and rapidly intake needed to cool our data centers.
make operational changes.
Amazon Sustainability Data Initiative Weather data in particular can help shippers optimize their
routes. Traditionally, these and other climate‐related datasets
The Amazon Sustainability Data Initiative (ASDI) helps have resided around the world in large files and complex
researchers, scientists, and innovators around the world systems, making them hard to access without the aid of
advance their work on sustainability-related research. The specialized computers. To solve this, nauticAi is leveraging
program provides publicly available, free access to important weather forecast data through ASDI from NOAA and the
scientific data that can otherwise be hard for researchers to Finnish Meteorological Institute. nauticAi’s technology also
access or analyze. uses machine learning and artificial intelligence tools on AWS
to further improve maritime operations.
Solcast In Zanzibar, Tanzania, government officials and the State
Our Approach Solcast is an Australian company that builds forecasts for University of Zanzibar are using the Digital Earth Africa
solar industry customers using cloud cover, solar radiation, platform to monitor how coastal erosion, rising sea levels,
ASDI works with scientific organizations around the world and photovoltaic (PV) power data. The forecasts help solar and deforestation are contributing to the degradation of
to identify important datasets, which are then hosted for producers predict the amount of solar irradiance and the mangrove trees on the island. The data hosted on AWS,
free by the AWS Open Data Sponsorship Program. The amount of solar PV energy that their farms may receive. which local officials previously had no way to access,
program currently hosts petabytes of data including weather Solcast’s forecasts rely on large datasets from a global fleet has helped leaders understand the need to restore their
observations, ocean temperatures, climate projection data, of weather satellites, including Geostationary Operational mangroves and led to an effort to plant 1,000 mangrove
and satellite imagery. Environmental Satellites (GOES) data from the U.S. National seeds per week .
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), which
Our approach allows sustainability experts to analyze Solcast accesses through ASDI.
massive amounts of data in minutes, regardless of where Qhub
they are in the world or how much local storage space or The data helps solar customers orchestrate renewable The Earth Science Information Partners Lab, a scientific
computing capacity they can access. energy generation across electrical grids, visualize the impact nonprofit, is working with ASDI to extend cloud credits to
of thousands of PV systems, and optimize utility-scale support the deployment of Qhub, a development space on
batteries and solar farms. In addition, the data helps identify the AWS Cloud that gives more than 90 scientists across four
Innovating for Sustainability in the best locations for solar farms, enabling governments U.S. government agencies an area to share and analyze data.
the Cloud around the world to plan their transition toward a 100%
renewable energy future. Learn more on the AWS blog . This new space enables the U.S. federal government and the
From university researchers to local governments and federal scientists to collaborate in ways that were previously difficult
agencies to private startups, organizations leverage ASDI to nauticAi due to the lack of a shared computing infrastructure. The
help address major sustainability challenges. ASDI encourages Digital Earth Africa nauticAi is a maritime startup company from Finland that effort has helped accelerate research on everything from
this by providing cloud grants to those interested in exploring Digital Earth Africa is a nonprofit working with African offers ocean freight shipping companies a real-time cloud flooding to illegal mining while helping the scientists learn
the use of AWS’ technology. Here are some examples of how nations to provide local leaders with information to plan for platform to help them operate their fleets more efficiently. the benefits of collaborative data and computing.
ASDI is helping drive sustainability innovations: impacts related to climate change, like flooding, droughts, The technology analyzes a variety of data, including weather
and erosion. Through a collaboration with ASDI, Digital Earth forecasts, engine performance, humidity, and motion, which
Africa is using satellite imagery hosted on AWS to create a operators can use to improve ships’ performance and help
In This Section
Human Rights
Employee Benefits
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
Employee Engagement
Safety, Health, and Well-Being
Supply Chain
Communities
Society
Contributing to a More
Equitable Society
We depend on the people who
support our entire value chain and
are committed to ensuring they are
treated with dignity and respect each
and every day. We know we have
more to do, and we are committed
to continuously widening our lens to
better understand the potential human
rights impacts of our business.
Leadership Principle Black Business Accelerator Leadership Principle
In 2021, we launched the
Success and Scale Strive to be Earth’s
Black Business Accelerator, a
Bring Broad Best Employer
$150 million initiative to help build
Responsibility sustainable equity and growth for
Black‑owned businesses.
Starting Wages
We offer an average
starting wage of $18+ per
Our Societal
hour for roles in fulfillment
and transportation in the
Commitments U.S.—more than double
the federal minimum wage.
Gender Equity
and Progress
We signed and adopted
the UN Women’s
Empowerment Principles
Donations
as part of our long‑
Through the Amazon Business Donations
standing commitment
Hub, we contributed more than 225 million
to gender equity.
in‑kind donated items in 2021, including
personal protective equipment, school
supplies, and other essentials. Commitment
Increase representation
Commitment
of employees from
Upskill 300,000 diverse backgrounds
Amazon employees across our business
by 2025
Respecting Our Approach Strong Policies of our business, including related risks and the strategies
for addressing them. While the entire Board has overall
Human Rights Our commitment and approach are informed by leading Our efforts are anchored in policies that apply across our responsibility for risk oversight, the Board has delegated
international standards and frameworks developed by the business—from our own operations to our supply chain, responsibility for certain risks to its committees.
Throughout Our UN and the International Labour Organization (ILO). Amazon and from the design and use of our technology to the
is committed to respecting and supporting the UN Guiding communities we impact. We regularly review our policies Among other duties and responsibilities, the Nominating
Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs), the UN to identify areas for update and improvement, engaging and Corporate Governance Committee oversees Amazon’s
Business
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the core Conventions external stakeholders and benchmarking against international environmental, social, and corporate governance policies
of the ILO, and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental human rights standards and evolving industry norms. and initiatives. This includes policies and initiatives related
Principles and Rights at Work. to corporate social responsibility, such as human rights
Our Global Human Rights Principles demonstrate our and ethical business practices, and related risks most
Amazon is committed to treating
Our strategy to deliver on these commitments is based on commitment to respecting human rights and the dignity of relevant to Amazon’s operations and engagement with
the people connected to our entire
the UNGPs and has five pillars: developing strong policies; people connected to our business around the world. customers, suppliers, and communities. Among other duties
value chain with fundamental embedding human rights into our business; assessing, and responsibilities, the Leadership Development and
prioritizing, and addressing risk through mechanisms; Our Supply Chain Standards detail the requirements and Compensation Committee oversees Amazon’s strategies and
dignity and respect. We strive to
transparency and stakeholder engagement; and enabling expectations for our suppliers, their supply chains, and selling policies related to human capital management, including
embed respect for human rights
access to effective remedy. partners that list products in our stores. They are grounded diversity and inclusion, workplace environment and safety,
throughout our business activities in principles of inclusivity, continuous improvement, and and corporate culture. The Committees regularly meet with
We work to continuously improve, tracking our progress on supply chain accountability. We engage with suppliers that are management and review these matters.
and relationships.
our human rights commitments and reviewing and updating committed to these same principles; suppliers commit to these
our policies, processes, and practices to put people at the standards as a condition of doing business with us. At least As a global company, we recognize the responsibility
center of our work. every three years, in line with industry best practices, we review and opportunity we have to raise awareness among our
our Supply Chain Standards against policies developed by employees on human rights issues. We have a central team
industry associations. Additionally, we review these standards that works across the company to operationalize human
in consultation with human rights experts and organizations, rights due diligence and embed human rights considerations
including Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), Impactt into everyday business decisions. We also offer trainings
Limited, International Center for Research on Women, Nest, tailored to salient human rights risks. For example, our forced
the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), and UN Women. labor awareness program makes ongoing training available
to employees around the world to recognize indicators of
forced labor and report concerns to appropriate authorities
Embedding Human Rights Into in a way that puts the interests of potential victims first.
Our Business
We are committed to embedding human rights
considerations into decision-making across our company and
into our policy and governance framework. Amazon’s Board
Mechanisms to Assess, Prioritize, and We recognize that audits alone are insufficient to drive long- Identifying Salient Human Rights Risks experts, incorporated their feedback into the results, and
Address Risk term change across industries. We, like many companies The UNGPs guide companies to prioritize the most severe benchmarked the results against internationally recognized
in similar industries, are exploring new ways to encourage risks to people connected to their operations and business human rights standards. The assessment identified a
We are committed to assessing, prioritizing, and addressing improvement in worker protections. This includes supporting relationships and are the foundation of our human rights set of priority human rights values, three foundational
adverse human rights impacts connected to our business suppliers’ efforts to improve their grievance mechanisms, due diligence approach. Teams use a variety of tools— commitments, and key salient human rights risks for Amazon.
and we are continually working to improve our approach. supplier capacity-building programs, worker trainings, and saliency assessments, human rights impact assessments
At Amazon, businesses deploy a variety of mechanisms to collaborations with other brands and civil society. We currently (HRIAs), and other human rights-based processes grounded The saliency assessment was a key milestone in the
do this. focus our supply chain efforts on key commitment areas: Safe in the UNGPs—to assess, prioritize, and address the most development of our human rights due diligence strategy.
Workplaces, Freely Chosen Employment, Gender Equity, Fair severe risks to people. Building on this work, in 2021, we made progress on
In our supply chain, we assess and respond to risk by Wages, Environmental Protection, and Grievance Mechanisms. our salient human rights risks and furthered our efforts
leveraging internal and external data and guidance from In 2020, Amazon worked with sustainability and human to implement human rights due diligence mechanisms.
external stakeholders, including industry experts, civil society Learn more about our work to rights consulting firm Article One Advisors to conduct What follows are some examples of how we assessed
groups, and NGOs. We engage directly with suppliers and source products responsibly . our first enterprisewide saliency assessment, focused on and addressed our salient risks, prioritizing our three
their workers and conduct independent audits to verify identifying salient human rights risks across our business. foundational commitments.
compliance with our Supply Chain Standards. We also work Within our own operations, our central team focuses on We consulted a diverse group of external human rights
with suppliers on appropriate remediation measures and human rights due diligence and collaborates with teams
offer partnerships and programs to help them address risks dedicated to assessing, prioritizing, and addressing human
and invest in worker well-being. rights risks to our employees. These teams focus on Amazon’s Enterprisewide Salient Human Rights Risks
establishing open communication with Amazon employees,
providing them with meaningful grievance mechanisms,
Human Rights Values Salient Risks
building a diverse and inclusive workplace, and keeping our
employees safe. We know we have more to do, and we are
Respect Human Rights Earn and Keep the Trust Diversity, Equity, Freedom of Association
committed to widening our lens to better understand the
in Our Supply Chain of Our Customers and Inclusion
Future of Work
potential human rights impacts of our business.
Empower Employees Strengthen the Safe and Healthy
Right to Privacy
Learn more about our approach to employee engagement ; and Contractors Communities We Serve Working Conditions
Product Safety
our efforts on diversity, equity, and inclusion ; Modern Slavery and
and Security
and our investments in workplace safety . Forced Labor
Social, Economic, and
Fair Wages and Hours
Environmental Justice
Three Foundational Commitments
Meaningful Consultation Opportunity for Concerns to Focus on Vulnerable Groups
with Stakeholders be Heard and Issues Resolved
Meaningful Consultation With Stakeholders • We launched a $12 million, five-year partnership with the
We worked with human rights expert organizations to U.S. National Safety Council to uncover new ways to prevent
advance our human rights due diligence, including Article and address musculoskeletal disorders.
One Advisors, BSR, Impactt Limited, and The Centre for Child
Rights and Business. Some of the outcomes from Amazon’s Learn more about our engagement with
partnerships and collaborations that were accomplished in stakeholders on our website .
2021 include:
• We created a $150 million Black Business Accelerator Opportunity for Concerns to be Heard and Issues Resolved
program in partnership with our Black Employee Network We developed a set of Worker Voice Criteria, outlining key
affinity group and strategic partners with experience expectations for worker voice mechanisms in our supply
supporting Black businesses, including the Minority Business chain. This is part of our efforts to build our capacity to
Development Agency and the U.S. Black Chambers, Inc. provide suppliers and service providers with a variety of Human Rights Impact Assessments linked to potential risks. We have policies and mechanisms
Learn more on page 54 . trusted tools, products, and systems in order to hear directly Our teams use HRIAs as a due diligence tool to identify in place to help address these potential risks, including our
from workers about their experiences and to support the and address adverse impacts business activities might Supply Chain Standards, regular supplier assessments, and
• We engaged the Policing Project at New York University resolution of issues from workers’ perspectives. have on individuals such as workers, local community grievance mechanisms.
School of Law to audit the Neighbors application and members, or consumers. HRIAs surface detailed information
Neighbors Public Safety Service—which provide users with Learn more about our Ethics Line . about our human rights risks and root causes, as well as In 2021, we began implementing recommendations from
real-time crime and safety alerts—to help improve our Ring stakeholder perspectives, so that we can address those the HRIA, such as increasing our support for industry
products and services from a civil liberties and policing ethics Learn more about our help email for inquiries or risks with targeted action. For each HRIA, we partner with collaboration on responsible mineral sourcing, and building
perspective. Read our report on the Ring blog. complaints about our handling of Amazon customers’ an independent human rights consulting firm to conduct the capacity of our supply chain partners to effectively
personal information or about our privacy practices the assessment, facilitate stakeholder engagement, and manage human rights risks. We also began developing
• We signed and adopted the UN Women’s Empowerment generally on Amazon.com . deliver recommendations for improved business practices a multiyear, Amazon-branded digital devices strategy to
Principles (WEPs) as part of our long-standing to address the relevant human rights risks. address risks, seeking perspectives from organizations with
commitment to gender equality. The WEPs were established expertise in human rights, inclusive economy, circularity,
by the UN Global Compact and UN Women to offer Focus on Vulnerable Groups Below we provide an update on our first HRIA, summarized and responsible innovation to meet the expectations of
businesses guidance on ways to promote gender equality We signed the memorandum on “Standing up for Children’s in our 2020 Sustainability Report . our customers and impacted communities.
and women’s empowerment in the workplace, marketplace, Rights in the Digital Environment” at the 2021 Paris Peace
and community. Forum. Additionally, we expanded partnerships with Update on Our Devices Supply Chain HRIA In 2021, several final assembly and manufacturing suppliers
RBA and the International Organization for Migration to In 2020, we conducted Amazon’s first HRIA on the raw of Amazon-branded digital devices participated in the RBA
• We also signed the Trusted Cloud Principles , including help strengthen suppliers’ practices around responsible and recovered materials supply chain for Amazon-branded Factory Lead Certification Program. The program trains
principles recognizing that “international human rights recruitment of foreign migrant workers. digital devices. Using the UNGPs as a framework to guide factory management on effective worker communication
law enshrines a right to privacy,” and committed to the the assessment, the HRIA results indicated we are directly and maintaining safe working conditions, allowing suppliers
Partnership on AI , working with partners to help drive Learn more in our 2021 Modern Slavery Statement . linked to potential risks for Tier 1–2 manufacturing and to proactively prevent or mitigate potential issues before
responsible artificial intelligence solutions for people reverse logistics suppliers. For minerals, metals, plastics, they arise.
and society. and synthetics suppliers, results indicated we are indirectly
Transparency and Stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement Gender Equity
Engagement Engagement with external stakeholders is key to our human
rights due diligence approach. This collaboration is essential In 2021, we signed and adopted the UN Women’s
We are committed to driving best practices in human rights to identifying positive outcomes for people connected to Empowerment Principles (WEPs) . Supported by
due diligence through increased disclosures about our our business and is part of our responsibility to respect more than 6,000 corporate signatories, the WEPs were
approach and by expanding our stakeholder engagement. human rights in line with the UNGPs. We rely on experts and established by the UN Global Compact and UN Women
Each year, we track progress on our human rights affected rights-holders to inform our approach and validate to offer businesses guidance on ways to promote gender
commitments and publicly share up-to-date information that our efforts have the intended impact. Through regular equality and women’s empowerment in the workplace,
about our programs, including external partnerships with stakeholder engagement and strategic partnerships, we marketplace, and community.
organizations that share our core human rights values. incorporate invaluable expert input into our work, helping us
achieve greater impact on people connected to our business “ Our support of the Women’s Empowerment
around the world. Principles underscores our long-standing
Transparency work to promote gender equality and
Transparency is an important tool to help us understand and Learn more about our partnerships on our website , empowerment in the workplace, marketplace,
address risks in our value chain and identify opportunities for or see a list of our partners . and communities, and we are encouraged
collaboration on systemic issues. We publish an interactive to see other like-minded businesses coming
supply chain map that provides details on suppliers of together to drive positive change.”
Amazon-branded apparel, consumer electronics, food and
beverage, and home goods products. We provide data from Andy Jassy
supplier assessments annually, including year-over-year President and CEO, Amazon
data on high- and medium-level issues in our supply chain.
We report on actions to prioritize the three foundational We also made a $1 million contribution to the Resilience
commitments identified in our enterprisewide saliency Fund for Women in Global Value Chains . The Resilience
assessment. We also contribute lists of our apparel suppliers Fund pools corporate investments to drive local, women-
to the Open Apparel Registry to foster brand collaboration led solutions to some of the toughest problems facing
and action in the apparel industry. women in global value chains. Established by BSR, the
UN Foundation, and Women Win, the Resilience Fund aims
We report annually in line with the UNGP Reporting Framework to raise at least $10 million to make strategic, long-term
and publish an annual Modern Slavery Statement . investments in women’s economic resilience, health, and
well-being. Amazon’s donation will be invested in local
organizations globally, serving women in manufacturing,
apparel, and agricultural supply chain communities.
Learn more on About Amazon .
Grievance Mechanisms and Effective In our operations, consistent, honest, and open communication Worker Voice Mechanism Criteria Equitable and Accessible: Mechanisms should
Access to Remedy with our employees allows us to continually improve our accommodate diversity and ensure that workers have
workplace experience, empowering individuals to voice We developed a set of Worker Voice Criteria to outline key reasonable access to the information, advice, and expertise
As part of our first enterprisewide human rights saliency concerns and have them directly addressed by leadership. expectations and drive best practices for our suppliers and necessary to engage with the mechanism. Workers
assessment, we made a foundational commitment that Our goal is to hear from and listen to everyone. Dedicated service providers that are implementing and maintaining who face particular barriers due to language, literacy,
those in our value chain have the opportunity for concerns teams across the company focus on establishing open worker voice mechanisms. These criteria draw from or disability should have adequate assistance.
to be heard and issues resolved. Focusing on listening to the communication with our employees, providing them with the UNGPs and the Worker Engagement Supported by
people connected to our business and understanding their meaningful grievance mechanisms and avenues for dialogue Technology (WEST) Principles to align these mechanisms Transparent and Predictable: Mechanisms should
experiences to address risks and remedy issues is a critical with leadership. Aligning with the UNGP framework, Amazon’s with internationally recognized human rights. provide users with clear procedures to set expectations
element of our human rights approach and a core obligation policies and practices are designed to promote respect for on time frames, how outcomes will be monitored,
under the UNGPs. the rights of freedom of association and collective bargaining Worker Inclusive: Worker trust is paramount; workers and how stakeholders will be informed about the
and to comply with the legal requirements of the countries should have input into the mechanisms’ design and mechanism’s effectiveness.
where we operate. As stated in our Leadership Principles, performance, particularly how worker voice mechanisms
we Strive to be Earth’s Best Employer, offering a safer, more will address and resolve issues. Source of Continuous Learning: New mechanisms
productive, higher performing, more diverse, and more just should be adequately resourced, developed to complement
work environment. We have many policies, practices, and Privacy Ensured: Mechanisms must never cause harm existing mechanisms, and used to understand areas of risk
mechanisms in place to provide open lines of communication to workers; mechanisms must have adequate safeguards and integrate feedback into the design and implementation
between leadership and employees and act regularly to in place, providing workers with notice of how data will of programs.
address employee concerns and make improvements. We be protected.
recognize that Success and Scale Bring Broad Responsibility. In 2021, we expanded our efforts to help suppliers build
We must begin each day with a determination to make better, and employ worker voice tools and improve their capacity
do better, and be better for our customers, our employees, our to respond to worker grievances in Cambodia, China, India,
partners, and the world at large. Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Vietnam.
Learn more about our
approach to employee engagement .
Our aim is that every worker across our supply chain has access
to an effective grievance mechanism. We work with suppliers
to increase their capacity to develop these mechanisms by
creating channels to hear directly from workers about their
experiences and to support the resolution of issues from
workers’ perspectives.
Learn more about our
Responsible Sourcing Program .
Providing Our Approach The Ripple Effect
a Range of Amazon strives to be a great place to work, whether our Sylvia’s Café, a Caribbean-style restaurant run by wife-and-husband team
employees are building lifelong careers with us or developing Sylvia Burke and François Theodore, is located near a 2.4 million square-
Employee skills to help them on their professional journeys. This foot Amazon fulfillment center in Opa-locka, Florida. Throughout the
begins with offering competitive starting wages in locations pandemic, the presence of Amazon employees looking for great food
around the world, and continues with benefits, support, and meant that the doors of Sylvia’s Café didn’t shut. This was thanks, in part,
Benefits
opportunities to help employees reach their full potential. to employees like Nelly Nelson, whose higher wage means she can make
better food choices.
Going Above and Beyond With “ Instead of fast food, I’m able to eat better, healthier
We believe that a diverse,
Starting Wages food,” she said.
passionate workforce is key to
a successful business. Amazon We’re proud that our average starting wage has increased There are similar stories across our operations network, from EastBrew Café
to $18 per hour in the U.S. In the UK, Germany, and France, and Bakery near a fulfillment center in Eastvale, California, to The Parlor
is building a strong culture and
our minimum starting wages are 10 GBP, 12 EUR, and Salon and Spa in Murfreesboro, Tennessee. These are small examples of
making investments to attract and
10.88 EUR, respectively. the big impact our wages are having on communities across the U.S.
retain the talented employees we
Learn more on About Amazon .
need today and in the future.
2021 Awards and Recognition
Amazon also received several awards from Comparably,
#1 #2 #4 #1 a company that reviews and compares company
cultures and market compensation to showcase the
most fair and accurate display of employer brands.
LinkedIn’s Most Desired Fortune’s Top Companies Forbes World’s Best AmbitionBox Best Place
Place to Work in the U.S. in 2021 Employers in 2021 to Work in India Amongst
These awards included:
Mega Companies
• Best Global Culture
• Best Place to Work
(Seattle, Atlanta, Los Angeles, and Austin)
2021 Top Employer
• Best Engineering Team
• Best Operations Team
In France, Italy, and Spain (Top Employers Institute)
• Best Product & Design Team
Health care
Our Inclusive Benefits
Taking care of our employees’ health and wellness is a Medical, prescription
Adoption
priority. We strive to offer benefits that are inclusive for our drug, dental, and
reimbursement
employees, regardless of their personal circumstances. vision coverage
We offer health care benefits to all regular, full-time Amazon An at-a-glance look
employees in the U.S., including medical, prescription drug, Access to Ramp Back, which allows at our investments in the
On-site and Neighborhood Health
dental, and vision coverage. In regions with fewer options parents to work a reduced schedule health, family, and life of
Centers providing convenient
for convenient access to high-quality and affordable primary for up to eight weeks after the our employees in the U.S.
access to high-quality care
and mental health care, we launched Neighborhood Health birth or adoption of a child
Centers to support our employees and their families, with
17 locations across the U.S. as of the end of 2021.
Access to Leave Share, which
We also developed a health care benefits system that, where allows employees to donate In-network health options
possible, provides gender transition benefits, including up to six weeks of their paid for virtual care, specialty
gender affirmation. We maintain internal resources to help parental time to their partner, centers of excellence, and
managers and team members support employees who should their partner’s employer health care decision support
are transitioning.
not offer paid parental leave
Access to comprehensive Gender transition
infertility resources and benefits, including
treatment coverage gender affirmation
Up to 20 weeks of paid leave Expanded reimbursement
for birthing parents and up of travel costs to cover
to six weeks of paid leave for treatment for non-life-
parents who do not give birth Mental health support, with free threatening medical issues
confidential counseling and work-life when travel is required,
services for employees, their families, including elective abortion
Inclusive Benefits for All A Family-Friendly Employer
The benefits offered by Amazon can be truly life-changing. We know that the time employees spend at work is just one
Take Luv-Luv , a former hairdresser who chose to work at part of what makes them who they are, and that balance
an Amazon fulfillment center because of the quality of health between work and home is essential for their well-being. We
benefits offered from the first day on the job. Crucially for prioritize benefits that support employees’ families of all kinds.
Luv-Luv, this includes equal health coverage for transgender
individuals, without exclusion for medically necessary care. In the U.S., for eligible full-time and reduced-time
employees, Amazon offers up to 20 weeks of paid leave for
Since starting at the Amazon fulfillment center in Shakopee, birthing parents and up to six weeks for non-birth parents or
Minnesota, nearly four years ago, Luv-Luv’s health benefits parents who adopt. We also offer adoption reimbursement
have covered four surgeries. and access to comprehensive infertility resources and
treatment coverage. In addition, our Leave Share program
“Before Amazon, I was pre-op transgender, and allows U.S. employees to donate up to six weeks of their
since then, I’ve fully transitioned,” she said. paid parental leave to their partner should their partner’s
“Amazon paid for all that.” employer not offer paid parental leave. Our Ramp Back
program allows parents to work a reduced schedule for up
Though the insurance benefit was her main reason for joining to eight weeks after the birth or adoption of a child.
the company, the pay at Amazon helped Luv-Luv and her social, learning, or emotional challenge. Amazon provides
two pets afford a comfortable lifestyle. In addition to finding Mental health resources are available 24/7 to all employees, employees in the U.S. free access to expert consultants and
a healthy environment and work she loves, Luv-Luv’s role their families, and anyone in their household through educational materials for parents to help children build the
at Amazon offered another important benefit: inclusion, Amazon’s employee assistance program (EAP), which also skills needed to reach their full potential. In 2022, we are
on her terms. offers virtual treatment options. This includes free access expanding our programs globally to reach more employees,
to a new mental health benefit launched in the U.S. in provide more mental health support for children and
“Amazon has allowed me to live a comfortable 2021, called Resources for Living. This service provides teens, and offer innovative solutions to meet the needs of
life that I’ve always dreamed of,” she said. a streamlined place for personalized, convenient, and neurodiverse families. This will include access to therapists
“I live on my own terms and I’m not dependent confidential mental health and daily life support. For and coaches, on-demand resources, and integration with
on anyone else. It’s been a phenomenal employees outside of the U.S., we offer 24/7, on-demand other benefits such as the EAP.
journey for me.” support for mental health and work-life concerns, along with
immediate consultation and support after a critical incident We continue to evolve our benefits programs to support
Learn more about our support for LGBTQ+ employees . or traumatic event. These services are available through our the needs of our diverse workforce. For example, in the U.S.,
global EAP partners, including Workplace Options. Amazon offers FamilyFlex benefits to help bring more women
and parents back to the workforce. These include Anytime
We also believe in providing support for child and adolescent Shift, which allows employees who choose these roles to
mental health, including clinical guidance for parents of create their own work schedule. There are currently over
children who have neurodevelopmental disorders, such 23,000 open roles that qualify for Anytime Shift, and more
Empowering Employees Through Helping Our Employees Level Up Subsidizing Tuition Fees Through
Training and Education Career Choice
We want every Amazon employee to pursue their For many people aspiring to grow professionally, education
We believe all employees should have the opportunity to passions and goals. Upskilling programs help may be the first stepping stone—and yet, it can be
learn new skills, grow, and build their careers as they develop employees gain in-demand skill sets and propel them challenging to find the flexibility or resources to do so
their professional journeys. Some employees focus on skills into new careers. Through Upskilling 2025, Amazon while working.
that benefit their work at Amazon and some focus on skills is creating pathways to careers in fields that will
that benefit their long-term career aspirations. continue growing in the years to come. Thanks to Amazon Career Choice , our pre-paid tuition
program, thousands of hourly employees in 14 countries
Through this commitment, we offer different are earning certificates and degrees. As of early 2022,
skills training and education programs, including courses available through Career Choice include those
“ There are very few companies out there apprenticeship programs to help participants take the that employees can take to pursue an associate degree
that are willing to invest in new people first steps in their careers. In 2021, we added three or bachelor’s degree in fields ranging from information
in this manner… This program opens the new programs to our portfolio, for a total of nine technology to computer science, and from health care to
door for people to get paid to learn and company-funded training options. More than 70,000 transportation. In addition, our Career Choice program
figure out if they enjoy a field. And if employees have participated in one of these programs also supports employees pursuing high school completion,
they do really well, they’ll have a job.” since we launched our Upskilling 2025 pledge in 2019. General Education Diplomas (GEDs), and English as a Second
Language (ESL) proficiency certifications.
Melfi Perez
Amazon Technical Apprenticeship U.S. hourly employees who have been employed at Amazon
for 90 days are eligible to participate in Career Choice.
To make training even more accessible and reduce the
Learn more about the range of programs we offer need to commute to classes, we’ve built more than 140
in our Upskilling 2025 Report . on-site classrooms, enabling employees to take college
and technical classes inside our fulfillment centers.
$1.2B 50K+ 140+
Amazon investment to Employees have participated On-site classrooms globally
upskill 300,000 of our in Career Choice
own employees by 2025
Taking a New Path—From Amazon to Medicine
There is a rising demand for health workers, offering a new
opportunity for more people, like Ernesto Regis . Ernesto was
working in a fulfillment center in Florida when his supervisor
introduced him to Amazon Career Choice. Shortly after
completing a medical assistant’s course through Career Choice,
Ernesto was offered a job as a medical assistant. Today, Ernesto
is continuing his journey in the health care field.
“ I am now working as a phlebotomist and medical
assistant. But I am not done yet,” he said. “I’ve
enrolled in nursing and I’m taking classes to
become a registered nurse. Amazon supported
and financed a better future for me. Even though
that future didn’t include them.”
Ernesto Regis
Medical Assistant and former Amazon fulfillment
center employee
Fostering Our Approach A Team Powering Change For example, we launched the AWS Impact Accelerator ,
a $30 million commitment to providing Black, Latinx,
Diversity, Equity, We respect and value people of all identities and Setting goals, regularly reviewing progress, and strong women, and LGBTQ+ founders of startups with equitable
backgrounds, including gender, gender identity, race, management are vital to driving lasting action and access to training, mentorship, tools, and resources. Startups
and Inclusion ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, military status, improving representation and inclusion throughout our will receive an unrestricted $125,000 cash grant and up to
disability, and more. We take an intersectional approach business. In 2021, we welcomed a new Vice President of $100,000 in AWS Activate credits, as well as guidance from
to the policies, programs, and strategies we create for our Global DEI, bringing in-depth expertise and experience. AWS technology experts, investors, and partners.
employees, selling partners, suppliers, and customers to Candi Castleberry and her team are leading the refinement
Amazon’s ability to innovate on
build representation and inclusion into our business. of Amazon’s global DEI strategy and companywide goals.
behalf of our customers relies on Scaling Our Work Through Strategic
External Partnerships
the perspectives and knowledge of
Our DEI Champions We believe we can achieve more by collaborating with
people from all backgrounds. We
“ When I think about Amazon and the Our work is guided by hundreds of global dedicated DEI leading organizations that are making a difference in
think bigger, bolder, and better when potential for impact, I’m energized by professionals who work closely with business leaders to historically underrepresented communities. Amazon partners
we have diverse perspectives across the possibilities. This work will require help Amazon maintain a diverse and high-performing with nonprofits like Management Leadership for Tomorrow,
us to engage all communities, think work environment. Our approach to embedding DEI across which works to strengthen the recruitment and retention
our teams and we are committed to
globally, and cultivate a workplace that our organization also extends to how we support our selling of Black, Latinx, and Native American talent. In addition, our
putting diversity, equity, and inclusion not only is diverse but also inspires a partners and launch products and services to the world. affinity groups are instrumental in building and nurturing
(DEI) at the front and center of deep sense of belonging for every one external relationships as brand ambassadors.
of our employees. If we get this right,
everything we do.
together we can create a greater sense
of inclusion, not only within Amazon,
but for Amazon customers around
the world.” Accessibility Across Amazon
Candi Castleberry When we think inclusively and design with
Vice President of Global DEI, Amazon different needs in mind, technology can
empower everyone and support people with
disabilities in new ways. We are continually
$30M $150M enhancing our devices and services with new
accessibility features, whether integrating
Braille into our Fire tablet or improving Alexa
Commitment through the Commitment through the
to support our customers with disabilities.
AWS Impact Accelerator Black Business Accelerator
Alexa accessibility features range from adaptive
listening to on-screen captioning and more.
Creating an Inclusive Culture Mentoring for the Military Community LGBTQ+ Equality
At Amazon, inclusion means being valued, trusted, Amazon recruits experienced military leaders from all branches and all Amazon and our employees stand together with the
connected, and informed so that we can deliver the best backgrounds. Together, these leaders form important pipelines of talent. We LGBTQ+ community. As of 2021, there were more than
results for our customers. offer veterans the Military Mentoring Program (MMP), a career-development 100 global chapters of Glamazon, our LGBTQ+ affinity
resource that connects new employees with experienced employees who group. We are committed to advancing equal rights and
We believe that building a sense of belonging, value, help them translate and apply their knowledge to Amazon. have a long track record of advocating for protections
and opportunity is integral to people thriving in their for the LGBTQ+ community.
lives and at work—and to what we can achieve as a New veteran hires who join the MMP complete a brief profile before being
company. Amazon’s culture of inclusion is reinforced by our matched with a mentor, who then collaborates with them throughout their In the U.S. and India, Amazon provides transgender-
Leadership Principles , which remind team members to first year at Amazon. Mentors also assist mentees with progressing in the inclusive health benefits and gender transition benefits
seek diverse perspectives, learn and be curious, and lead with Military Ambassador Program, a 12-month development program focused based on the Standards of Care published by the
empathy. One of our newest Leadership Principles—Strive on sharing resources such as writing exercises, videos, and virtual huddles. World Professional Association for Transgender Health.
to be Earth’s Best Employer—specifically calls on leaders to Amazon also holds a gender identity conference to
work every day to create a safer, more productive, higher build community, educate those outside of the LGBTQ+
performing, more diverse, and more just work environment. community, and provide professional development
opportunities for those at Amazon who are transitioning
openly in the workplace.
Our Inclusion Goals Amazon’s Affinity Groups
In 2021, we set enterprisewide goals to rapidly scale a more Our affinity groups are Amazon communities where Learn more about our
inclusive culture for employees across Amazon. employees can share experiences and ideas to passionately “ Diversity exists when you go above inclusive benefits for employees .
and positively impact the company. Our dedicated DEI teams and beyond being aware of differences
Spotlighting Our 2021 Inclusion Goals consult with affinity group leaders to improve our inclusion or accepting differences, to actively
• Ensure that 100% of employees take companywide required efforts internally and externally, and each affinity group has including people who are different from
inclusion training. an executive sponsor who supports them with engagement you and inviting them to influence.”
efforts. Collectively, more than 100,000 Amazon employees
• Build scalable mechanisms that address new instances of participated in our affinity groups in 2021. Renita Clarke
noninclusive terms in our code and document repositories Area Manager, Global Specialty Facilities, Amazon
or development tools. A Selection of Affinity Groups
• Amazon People with Disabilities
• Build a scalable mechanism in Connections—our real-time • Asians@Amazon
employee listening tool—to inspect inclusion sentiment • Black Employee Network
by demographic for all employees. • Glamazon
• Indigenous@Amazon
• Retain employees at statistically similar rates across • Latinos@Amazon
all demographics. • Warriors@Amazon
Amazon Studios’ Inclusion Playbook Representation in Our Workforce Our Goals for Increasing Representation
In 2021, we set a number of goals to guide our efforts and
The work of DEI requires everyone to disrupt biases We are committed to increasing representation of employees progress for improved representation:
that build barriers and create inequities. This includes from historically underrepresented backgrounds at every
representation in the workplace, as well as in the media level of our organization. To do so, we focus on hiring,
2x 30%
we consume daily. The work is not easy, but we are retention, growth, development, and promotion.
committed to achieving real, lasting change.
To find the best talent and support our search for diverse Double the number of U.S. Increase hiring of U.S.
Working closely with the University of Southern talent, we partner with organizations and academic Black employees in Level 8 Black employees in Level 4
(Director) and Level 10 through Level 7 positions by
California’s Annenberg Inclusion Initiative, the institutions linked to underrepresented communities. In the
(Vice President) positions at least 30% year over year
International Documentary Association, and U.S., these organizations include historically Black colleges
year over year from from 2020 hiring.
Gamechanger Films, we created the Inclusion Playbook and universities (HBCUs), Hispanic-serving institutions,
2020 numbers.
to help people recognize biases that occur across the women’s colleges, and tribal colleges.
lifecycle of a series or movie—from production to launch.
30% 40%
The Playbook explores this issue further by allowing Students visit Amazon’s campus for a range of programs
people to understand how they can meet the Amazon and career enrichment experiences, such as our Represent
Studios Inclusion Policy. the Future Summit. We also partner with organizations like Increase the number of Increase the number of U.S.
Grace Hopper Celebration, Global Entrepreneurship Monitor women at Level 8 and Black software development
By thinking about a story, casting, crewing up, and how Consortium Fellows, AfroTech, AnitaB.org, Lesbians Who Level 10 positions in tech engineer interns by at
and science roles by 30% least 40%.
to track and report inclusion successes, the Playbook Tech, Girls in Tech, American Indian Science and Engineering
year over year.
is specifically designed to advance the visibility and Society, and others.
responsible depictions of underrepresented communities.
Amazon developed an online certification program with City 100K+ 1.6M
We view this as an evolving document that will be University of Seattle to offer training to military employees
updated over time, offering a much-needed tool to and their families for higher-paying jobs. We also work Hire more than 100,000 Reach 1.6 million
guide decision-making in creative hiring practices. with City University on its Apprenti program, which trains U.S. veterans and military underrepresented students
newcomers to the tech industry and places them in paid spouses by 2024, building globally through Amazon
“ This Inclusion Playbook adds important, apprenticeships at companies like Amazon. on our commitment to Future Engineer with real-
additional depth and guidance for our military families after world-inspired virtual and
internal teams and external partners to exceeding our 2016 White hands-on computer science
House pledge to hire 25,000 project learning.
ensure we continue to advance our shared
veterans and military
mission of amplifying the best creatives
spouses by May 2021.
and content around the world.”
Retain Employees
Latasha Gillespie
Executive Head, DEI, Amazon Studios
Living Our Principles Advancing Social and Racial Justice Introducing Amazon’s Black including the Minority Business Development Agency and
Business Accelerator the U.S. Black Chambers, Inc., which have deep experience
Amazon prioritizes equal pay. When we evaluate 2021 We are committed to using our scale to amplify historically in supporting Black businesses.
compensation, including base compensation, cash bonuses, underrepresented voices and empower diverse communities. In 2021, we launched the Black Business Accelerator (BBA)
and stock, our reported data demonstrates that women One of the ways we are doing this is by bridging the to target barriers to access and advancement, to drive As part of the Accelerator, we also introduced a 12-month
globally and in the U.S. earned 99.8 cents and 99.9 cents, technology and science divide for underrepresented groups economic equity for Black entrepreneurs, and to play a mentorship and networking benefit called BBA Connect to
respectively, for every dollar that men earned performing through science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) part in increasing the number of Black business owners in provide ongoing support for entrepreneurs.
the same jobs. Racial and ethnic minorities in the U.S. earned education programs and various learning events. This includes our industry.
99.2 cents for every dollar that white employees earned Amazon Future Engineer , our new Advanced Placement “ The opportunity to connect with people
performing the same jobs. Computer Science programming curriculum focused on Through our $150 million commitment, we are providing inside Amazon to continue to help us mature
equity and launched with Code.org. We also partner with Girls access to capital, business guidance, growth, and marketing our capabilities is super validating but also
In 2021, we further strengthened our long-standing in Tech through AWS Academy, where we work closely with support for current and aspiring Black small business extremely rewarding. With Amazon’s support,
commitment to gender equality by signing the UN Women’s minority-serving institutions (MSIs) and community colleges owners selling in Amazon’s store to grow their businesses. the sky really feels like it’s the limit.”
Empowerment Principles (WEPs) . The WEPs were to provide a free, ready-to-teach cloud computing curriculum.
established by the UN Global Compact and UN Women We are proud to have created this initiative with our Black Pernell Cezar
to offer businesses guidance on ways to promote gender In 2021, we also announced 21 undergraduate and graduate Employee Network affinity group and strategic partners, BLK & Bold
equality and women’s empowerment in the workplace, recipients from HBCUs and MSIs for our Supply Chain
marketplace, and community. Optimization Technologies organization’s fellowship .
Through AWS education programs, we announced a
Learn more about our partnerships and collaborative effort with Howard University to equip
investments to promote gender empowerment students with competitive technical skills, provide educators
in the workplace and community . with professional development opportunities, and drive
entrepreneurship at the university. We’ve also launched
statewide training and education initiatives, which are
typically anchored by community colleges. Collaboration with
community colleges helps AWS reach diverse populations
of minority, underrepresented, and veteran populations,
as well as urban and rural communities. In 2021, we also
announced the $10 million AWS Artificial Intelligence and
Machine Learning Scholarship , designed to prepare
underrepresented and underserved students globally for
careers in machine learning.
Learn more about our investments in education
to eliminate the STEM gap .
Supporting Inclusivity in
Our Communities “ Our work at the Asian American Writers’
Workshop centers the safeguarding
We are committed to promoting people in our communities and cultivation of our community’s
who come from historically underrepresented communities. imaginations, and we are incredibly
For example, at Whole Foods Market, our Inclusive Product grateful to the Amazon Literary
Strategy expands our existing partnerships with brands Partnership for their continued support
that are owned and operated by women, members of the that makes this critically necessary
LGBTQ+ community, and people of color. As part of this work possible.”
strategy, we spotlight one supplier per month across internal
communications channels. Select supplier spotlights from Jafreen Uddin
2021 include: Executive Director, Asian American Writers’ Workshop
• Shea Radiance , a Black- and women-owned beauty brand
$21 Million Program for Real Estate whose shea butter is sourced directly from women-run
Developers of Color cooperatives to create economic access through trade.
Addressing the housing crisis starts with removing barriers. • Undefined Beauty , a Black-, women-, and LGBTQ+-owned
In 2021, we announced an accelerator program to help real business that delivers innovative and high-quality products
estate developers of color kick-start their projects through at an accessible price point.
the Amazon Housing Equity Fund. The $21 million, two-year,
part-time professional development program aims to help real • Pop & Bottle , a women-operated and -owned, plant-
estate developers of color progress in an industry known for based bottled coffee business founded by two new mothers
high barriers to entry. We partnered with local social impact with an interest in wellness.
and economic justice organizations to develop curriculums and
networking opportunities that reflect the specific issues facing Another example is our continued commitment to the
their communities. Amazon Literary Partnership (ALP) —a grant program
founded in 2009 that funds organizations championing
We also partner with Enterprise Community Loan Fund, diverse, marginalized, and underrepresented authors and
Inc. to administer grants of up to $200,000 to qualified real storytellers. In 2021, ALP awarded 80 grants totaling more
estate developers of color. These grants are open to anyone than $1 million to organizations across the country that
who applies to the Amazon Housing Equity Fund and needs support writers and underrepresented voices.
assistance with the capacity-building and pre-development
expenses associated with the preservation and creation of Learn more about how we support diverse entrepreneurs,
affordable housing within Amazon’s three focus regions. business owners, and local producers .
Inclusion: By the Numbers
Real progress requires actions that can be tracked. We measure and share DEI data to better understand where
we are in our journey and where we need to go. See the Appendix for the full set of diversity and inclusion data,
including for Field and Customer Support, Corporate Employees, and Senior Leaders.
Amazon Workforce (All Levels)
Global U.S. U.S. Race/Ethnicity
42.7% Women 57.3% Men 45.4% Women 54.6% Men 18.6% Latinx 26.4% Black 15.4% Asian 34.6% White
2019 2019 2019
1.3% Native American 3.6% Multiracial
44.6% Women 55.4% Men 46.9% Women 53.1% Men 22.8% Latinx 26.5% Black 13.6% Asian 32.1% White
2020 2020 2020
1.5% Native American 3.6% Multiracial
44.8% Women 55.2% Men 47.0% Women 53.0% Men 23.6% Latinx 28.2% Black 13.2% Asian 30.2% White
2021 2021 22002211
1.5% Native American 3.3% Multiracial
People Managers
Global U.S. U.S. Race/Ethnicity
27.8% Women 72.2% Men 28.0% Women 72.0% Men 21.1% Asian 58.9% White
2019 2019 2019
0.6% Native American 3.0% Multiracial 8.1% Latinx 8.3% Black
29.3% Women 70.7% Men 29.0% Women 71.0% Men 10.6% Black 19.5% Asian 56.4% White
2020 2020 2020
0.7% Native American 3.2% Multiracial 9.5% Latinx
30.8% Women 69.2% Men 30.5% Women 69.5% Men 12.0% Black 19.9% Asian 53.1% White
2021 2021 22002211
0.7% Native American 3.3% Multiracial 10.9% Latinx
Employee Feedback Mechanisms Appeals Process
We believe that everyone deserves to have their voice heard,
Engagement: We are committed to providing our employees with grievance including when appealing any decisions. In the U.S. and
mechanisms and remedial action, regardless of collective Canada, Amazon offers an online, paperless appeals process,
Listening to bargaining presence. We work hard to listen to our employees, through which eligible employees can challenge certain
make continual improvements, and invest heavily to offer disciplinary actions. The appeals may involve a review from
competitive pay and benefits in a safe and inclusive workplace. a second-level manager or general manager to verify that
Our People
policies have been applied correctly. If this is not found to be
the case, we remediate as appropriate.
Voice of the Associate Boards
With more than 1.6 million direct
We offer our team members the opportunity to express
employees worldwide, employee themselves openly. For our associates, our Voice of the Ethical Behavior
Associate (VOA) boards and their digital counterpart,
engagement is fundamental to our
MyVoice, are available at Amazon facilities around the globe. While working, our employees should always act lawfully, Open-Door Philosophy
success. Our goal is to hear from and
These give employees a forum for expressing their concerns, ethically, and in the best interests of Amazon. Our Code of
listen to all of our employees. We have offering suggestions, and asking questions on a daily basis. Business Conduct and Ethics (Code of Conduct) sets out We believe candid and constructive communication in
Leadership teams reply directly, promoting dialogue and basic guiding principles for all employees. Employees may an environment of mutual respect is essential to our
a variety of engagement, feedback,
efficient remediation of issues. In 2021, Amazon managers raise questions or report suspected violations of our Code of collective success. Our open-door philosophy means
and remediation mechanisms that
received and responded to more than 210,000 submissions. Conduct through Amazon’s Ethics Line, by phone or online. we welcome and encourage any employee to discuss
help us continually improve our suggestions, concerns, or feedback with their manager,
workplace experience. a Human Resources team member, or any member of
Connections Ethics Line Amazon’s leadership team.
Connections is a real-time, companywide employee feedback The Ethics Line is a commonly utilized method for employees
mechanism, designed to listen to and learn from employees to raise concerns, offered in 165 languages and 63 countries.
at scale to improve the employee experience. Each day, Reports to the Ethics Line are answered by an independent
Connections questions are delivered to every Amazon third party and may be made anonymously on request. Our against employees in director-level positions or above and is
employee on a computer, workstation device, or hand Business Conduct and Ethics team records, reviews, investigates kept apprised of the progress and findings of our investigations.
scanner, generating more than 1.5 million daily responses (or directs others to investigate), and reports alleged violations
from employees. of the Code of Conduct, tracking any remediation required. The Leadership Development and Compensation Committee
of the Board of Directors, comprising independent directors,
Employees can choose to respond to a question or not, We take all allegations of unlawful conduct in the workplace receives detailed quarterly updates on any allegations
and individual responses are aggregated and shared with extremely seriously. We carefully review and investigate of unlawful harassment and discrimination against
210K+ 1.5M+ managers at the team level to maintain confidentiality. allegations of unlawful conduct or other conduct that violates employees in vice-president-level positions or above or
Connections analyzes response data and provides insights any of our policies. In addition, we will not allow retaliation employees investigated on behalf of Amazon by an external
Suggestions, questions, Responses every day to to managers and leaders to review and take actions as against an employee for reporting misconduct by others in investigator. Upon completion of each investigation, we take
and comments addressed Connections questions in necessary. Employees respond to Connections questions in good faith. Our senior leadership team receives regular updates appropriate action against anyone found to have engaged in
Engaging Our Employees Associate Forums Practices Related to Freedom of We value worker feedback, and are committed to
Amazon has dozens of Associate Forums in Europe and Association and Collective Bargaining providing our employees with grievance mechanisms
We value employee feedback. We believe it is in the best Africa that enable employees to regularly interact directly and remedial action, regardless of collective bargaining
interests of our employees and our company to continue with their site leadership teams. Associate Forums consist We respect freedom of association and our employees’ presence. We firmly believe it is in the best interests of
our direct communications, and that the best way to effect of site leadership and representatives elected by workplace right to join, form, or not to join a labor union or other our employees and our company to continue our direct
positive change is for our employees and managers to employees who meet regularly to share information, lawful organization of their own selection, without fear of communications, and that the best way to effect positive
continue working together directly. feedback, and ideas. This gives associates and leaders at the reprisal, intimidation, or harassment. These rights should be change is for our employees and managers to continue
site an opportunity to consult directly on key decisions that exercised in an informed and thoughtful manner. Amazon working together directly. We work hard to listen to our
We encourage our employees to provide feedback regularly. affect the site or associate experience, including working has a variety of elected associate forums and work councils employees, make continual improvements, and invest
Employees have daily opportunities to engage with leaders, practices, shift schedules, and associate well-being. around the world, and we have associates represented by heavily to offer competitive pay and benefits in a safe
raise issues, and make suggestions to continually improve some form of collective bargaining in many countries. and inclusive workplace.
our workplace through all-hands meetings with general
managers, stand-up meetings with direct supervisors, and Associate Safety Committees
one-on-one meetings. Another way Amazon obtains feedback and input from
employees is through Associate Safety Committees.
These committees exist at many sites around the world,
Associate Roundtables including in jurisdictions or states in the U.S. where they
The purpose of Associate Roundtable meetings is to provide are not legally mandated.
leaders and associates with meaningful opportunities to
discuss issues. Leaders hear directly from hourly associates,
who can ask questions about any topic and share thoughts
about their job, work environment, and any challenges they
might be facing. The leadership team uses the information
to improve the workplace and the associate experience.
Safety, Health, Our Approach Prioritizing Safety From Day 1 Smart Tech for Smarter Work
and Well-Being We structure our operations to fulfill customer orders as From an employee’s first day at Amazon, we highlight and We use technology to help reduce physical demands on our
efficiently and safely as possible, and work to optimize our reinforce the importance of safety through our new-hire employees. For example, we provide our fulfillment center
at Amazon processes, equipment, and facilities for safety and productivity. orientation program, which details safety expectations employees with intelligent, wearable safety items that can
We provide extensive safety training, coaching, and and policies. Helping employees understand how to use communicate with robotic equipment in real time. We also
engagement opportunities to our operations employees to the equipment and processes designed to keep them safe have mobile and vehicle technology to help drivers perform
continually improve workplace safety. We employ thousands through training opportunities—such as microlearning, just- pickups, deliveries, and returns efficiently and safely. We
Safety is integral to everything we
of safety professionals to solve complex problems, maintain in-time training, and learning by doing—is a top priority. This are constantly evaluating new opportunities and learning
do at Amazon, and we strive to be
safety equipment, and establish new industry best practices. provides our staff with the chance to build safety skills and programs to create innovative solutions in technology,
safer every day for our employees, competencies on an ongoing basis. We provide continual robotics, and automation that improve safety across
partners, and communities. Our We continually identify opportunities to innovate and invest training on topics such as body mechanics and fall hazards our operations.
in achieving better outcomes and solutions for our people. through routine reminders, alerts when logging on to a
work environments allow our
These range from integrating new safety technology, workstation, and messages in our mobile app for employees. One major area of focus is using technology to advance
employees, regardless of background, such as vehicle safety controls for our delivery network, Every operations manager also participates in annual driver-centric customization throughout our delivery fleet
skill level, or experience, to work to engineering ergonomic solutions for employees in our safety training, reinforcing basic concepts like emergency and bringing safety to the forefront of vehicle design. We
fulfillment centers. We continue to research, invest, and preparedness and hazard identification. are investing an incremental $100 million across our fleet in
with confidence.
apply data and insights to improve safety in our workplaces. 2022 to bring innovations in ergonomics and driver assistance
technologies. All Amazon-branded delivery vehicles are
equipped with driver safety and comfort features, including
active systems like automatic emergency braking, technologies
that improve visibility, and alerts for nearby vehicles.
In 2021, we piloted our custom electric delivery van, built
Safety at a Glance:
in partnership with Rivian, in over 15 U.S. cities. These vans
are designed with the human body in mind, and include
$300M+ $15B+
12 advanced driver assistance features that consider
the safety and comfort needs of our drivers. We are also
Invested in safety COVID-19-related costs collaborating with drivers to develop vehicle improvements
projects in 2021 incurred since the start of based on their feedback.
the pandemic to help keep
employees safe
Green Cross Safety
$12M
Innovation Award
Five-year partnership with the U.S. National Safety Council
How Technology Is Making Roads Safer Boosting Wellness and Well-Being
In 2021, thousands of drivers navigated over 2 billion miles “ As a driver, I feel protected and safer
delivering packages to our customers around the world. As with Amazon’s technology. If something When people are given the tools to take care of their
our transportation businesses have expanded, we’ve focused happens, the footage is there to help well-being at work and at home, they are not only less
on making our roads safer for our drivers and communities me. Alerts provide a level of safety prone to injuries but they feel better, healthier, and happier.
through innovative mobile and vehicle technology. that wasn’t there before, helping me We proactively help employees manage their health and
consciously think about safety—even wellness through a wide range of programs. We also provide
Artificial intelligence reduces accidents by capturing data after my shift ends when I’m driving access to convenient health care through our Neighborhood
and providing real-time alerts for unsafe driving behavior, my own vehicle.” Health Centers , with 17 facilities located near fulfillment
such as driver distraction, close following distance, stop sign centers in the U.S. as of 2021.
and signal violations, and seatbelt infractions. Our 2021 Nick
investment of more than $130 million in new transportation Operations Manager, Amazon Our innovative WorkingWell program uses academic
safety technology and programs resulted in nearly 50% research and certified athletic trainers to educate new
fewer accidents since October 2020, and we are investing employees about their bodies, health, and wellness to help
an incremental $100 million in 2022 to scale innovations in them successfully adapt to working at Amazon. After the
ergonomics and driver assistance technologies across our onboarding phase, WorkingWell continues to provide support “ The app was developed with employees,
delivery fleet. to employees through Huddles, which are meetings among for employees. We wanted to make
small groups of employees covering topics such as training, sure it’s not only easy to use but also
conditioning, bending, and handling objects. These regular beneficial, whether someone is starting
Our 2021 Impact: connections provide opportunities to discuss the benefits of their health and wellness journey or
strong body mechanics and provide ongoing safety education. continuing their safety education.”
$130M+ ~50%
We also provide short activities called Mind and Body Chandni Chandihok
Investment in vehicle tech Nearly 50% reduction Moments, which appear on workstation screens at sites Workplace Health and Safety Product
and programs in accidents across North America, South America, India, and Europe. Manager, Amazon
These messages encourage employees to take regular breaks
~80% 75% to stretch, breathe, and be mindful. The goal is to improve
employees’ mental and physical well-being, reduce fatigue Learn more in our report on safety, health,
and stress, and improve health and safety engagement. and well-being at Amazon.
Nearly 80% reduction in Reduction in
stop sign violations driver distraction
WorkingWell 2021 Impact:
Vehicle Safety
~1.2M 130 15%+ 1 App
Technology
Employees reached Huddles customized to sites Reduction in MSD incidents In the U.S. to enable even
In-vehicle camera safety technology installed in based on operation type for those participating in more employees to access
Building a Supply Our Approach approach to risk assessment against globally recognized Selling Partners
international standards and industry best practices.
Chain That Puts Our goal is for our products and services to be provided in a Selling partners are third-party sellers and retail vendors
way that respects human rights and the environment. Our We conduct regular assessments of suppliers of Amazon- that offer products for sale in Amazon’s stores. Our
People First global teams work closely with suppliers to communicate branded products, including Amazon Private Brands and Supply Chain Standards apply to every product sold in our
our standards and help suppliers build their capacity to Amazon devices, as well as a curated selection of brands stores and we expect selling partners to do their own due
provide working environments that are safe and respectful exclusively sold in Amazon’s store. We expect our suppliers diligence in support of producing every product in safe,
of human rights. to consistently monitor and enforce our standards in healthy, and inclusive work environments.
Amazon is committed to
their own operations and supply chain, as well as making
conducting our business in a
improvements to meet or exceed our expectations. We evaluate credible allegations of selling partner
lawful and responsible manner, Supply Chain Standards violations of our Supply Chain Standards including, but
including engaging with suppliers We set a high bar for ourselves and our suppliers. Amazon’s not limited to, those published by governments, civil
Supply Chain Standards detail the requirements and Continuous Improvement society, reputable investigators, journalists, or human
that respect human rights, provide
expectations for our suppliers, their supply chains, and selling Our approach is based on a commitment to workers and to rights defenders. If we have reason to suspect certain
safe and inclusive workplaces, and partners that list products in our stores. They are grounded continuous improvement. We put the safety and interests products do not meet our standards, we may request
promote a sustainable future. in principles of inclusivity, continuous improvement, and of workers first and work to strengthen suppliers’ capacities that the selling partner demonstrate the products it
supply chain accountability. We engage with suppliers that to manage and mitigate risks in their value chains. We have sells in our store were manufactured in accordance with
are committed to these same principles, and suppliers dedicated teams in key sourcing regions that engage directly Amazon’s Supply Chain Standards, such as providing
commit to these standards as a condition of doing business with suppliers and their workers. If an issue is found, we work evidence of auditing protocols, showing processes
with us. At least every three years, in line with industry best with suppliers to remediate the issue by prioritizing worker for assessing factory working conditions, engaging
practices, we review our Supply Chain Standards against feedback and offering suppliers resources to help them invest in unannounced audits, participating in an approved
policies developed by industry associations. Additionally, in worker well-being and safe workplaces. Teams across the industry association that includes factory monitoring,
we review these standards in consultation with human rights company set goals with senior leadership to track progress or verifying where the products are made.
experts and organizations, including Business for Social and incentivize improvement across our supply chain.
Responsibility (BSR), Impactt Limited, International Center
for Research on Women, Nest, Responsible Business Alliance Learn more about our Responsible Sourcing Program,
(RBA), and UN Women. including our Supply Chain Standards, our Supplier Manual,
and our supply chain map, on our website .
Supply Chain Risk Assessments
We evaluate our supply chain to understand the highest
risks to workers and to prioritize our efforts. To do this,
we engage key internal and external stakeholders, analyze
our risks using international risk indices such as the World
Top Five Sourcing
Bank’s Worldwide Governance Indicators, run worker surveys,
and conduct assessments that include worker interviews,
Supply Chain Transparency Our Progress in 2021 In 2021, we continued to strengthen our mechanisms to
address and improve workplace safety by conducting building, “ I feel proud to be a part of the program
Supply chain transparency is essential to our approach In 2021, we strengthened our engagement with suppliers, electrical, and fire safety assessments for at-risk suppliers in under Swasti. Before the training, I was
to human rights due diligence, and an important tool workers, and communities to further embed respect for Bangladesh and Pakistan. We also trained selected suppliers not very conscious of my health. I have
to help us address risks in our supply chain and identify human rights throughout our value chain. We are building our on how to improve management systems and workplace not been eating well in the morning. The
opportunities for collaboration on systemic supply efforts in our key commitment areas, including Gender Equity dialogue, and we created issue-specific guidebooks to enable training helped me to understand how
chain issues. We publish a supplier list and interactive and Responsible Recruitment, and strengthened our due suppliers to better understand the root causes of these issues to address symptoms I was experiencing
supply chain map that provides details on suppliers of diligence mechanisms. Workers remain at the center of our and help prevent issues from occurring. and counseled me on ways to manage
Amazon-branded apparel, consumer electronics, food work; we support our suppliers to mitigate risk and invest in through healthy lifestyle and exercise.
and beverage, and home goods products. We update our supply chain worker well-being. We expanded our work with the Sustaining Competitive The easy accessibility to the health
supply chain map at least annually to provide customers and Responsible Enterprises (SCORE) program, a lean counselor and nutritionist helped
and external stakeholders visibility into where we source. manufacturing program focused on improving productivity me gradually control and improve
We also contribute lists of our apparel suppliers to the Supply Chain Commitments and safe working conditions in small and medium-sized my symptoms.”
Open Apparel Registry to foster brand collaboration and manufacturers, with an emphasis on worker participation
action in the apparel industry. We evaluate our supply chain to identify the industries, as an essential component to strong safety management T. N. Manjula
countries, and issues where we have the greatest opportunities practices. To date, we have enrolled 50 suppliers located in Supervisor at Just Jute Products and participant in
Learn more about our supply chain map to identify and address risks and have a positive impact on India, China, and Vietnam, providing over 28,900 workers with Swasti health training
and list on our website . workers. We work closely with our suppliers around the world, a cumulative 8,800 hours of training. Through an independent
and consistently work to identify partnerships and programs assessment of the program, we found a reduction in health
to help our suppliers invest in worker well-being and safe and safety findings and accidents, and increased productivity
workplaces. We are proud to share our progress on our key and worker satisfaction.
commitment areas.
To provide programs to workers in our supply chain, we
Learn more about our key supply chain commitment partner with Swasti, a global nonprofit committed to ensuring
areas on our website . access to quality health care for workers in marginalized
communities. As of 2021, Swasti reached over 1,200 workers
in Amazon’s supply chain in India, providing critical mental
Safe and Healthy Workplaces health, health care, and social entitlement support to workers,
Maintaining safe and healthy workplaces is a top priority for their families, and their communities. Swasti provides a
Amazon. We have global teams who partner with suppliers to telecare health counseling program, factory management
increase worker awareness of safety issues, promote worker training on COVID-19 prevention and management,
participation in their facility’s safety culture, and promote and screening for harmful health conditions, including
initiatives focused on the well-being of workers on issues that hypertension and diabetes.
matter most to them.
Gender Equity We worked with International Center for Research on
Gender equity is a fundamental human right and a necessary Women (ICRW) Advisors and The Mara Partners to advance
foundation of a sustainable supply chain. Quality jobs for women’s rights across our global value chain, and joined
women translate to positive impacts for communities, and Better Cotton’s Working Group on Decent Work & Gender
we are actively working to empower women to make their to improve working conditions for cotton farmers.
own decisions on health, finances, and career development.
In addition, we signed and adopted the UN Women’s
In 2021, we scaled our work and investments to advance Empowerment Principles (WEPs) . Supported by more than
the rights of female workers in supply chains. We made a 6,000 corporate signatories, the WEPs were established by
$1 million investment in the Resilience Fund for Women in the UN Global Compact and UN Women to offer businesses
Global Value Chains. The Resilience Fund pools corporate guidance on ways to promote gender equality and women’s
investments to drive local, women-led solutions to some of empowerment in the workplace, marketplace, and community.
the toughest problems facing women in global value chains.
Established by BSR, the UN Foundation, and Women Win, Learn more about our human rights partnerships .
the Resilience Fund aims to raise at least $10 million to
make strategic, long-term investments in women’s economic
resilience, health, and well-being.
Protecting Workers During COVID-19 workers with access to crisis response resources, with a focus
on Asia’s most COVID-vulnerable regions.
Millions of workers worldwide remain affected by
deepening poverty, inequality, and job uncertainty due to Through a collaboration with Catalyst Management
the lingering impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. In many Services, a social investment specialist group, and PATH,
parts of Asia, which are critical manufacturing and sourcing a global public health nonprofit, this commitment will
regions for Amazon’s goods, workers continue to experience facilitate vaccine assistance, provide a medical hotline
health and financial challenges due to low vaccination rates for workers and their families, and assist factories in
and reoccurring lockdowns, which can shutter factories. establishing crisis response plans. Additionally, we continue
our collaboration with Nest to provide tools and training
Building on our 2020 investments in organizations providing to help more than 70 artisan small business owners in
critical front-line support to workers impacted by the Indonesia, Cambodia, and the Philippines weather the
pandemic, in 2021, we made an additional $1.65 million financial impact of shop closures, staffing shortages,
investment to collaborate with several organizations and and canceled orders.
invest directly in suppliers of Amazon-branded products.
Amazon Partnership With Nest In the wake of COVID-19, providing artisan businesses with
a multichannel sales strategy is essential to their resilience
To advance our gender equity commitments, we support and ability to withstand unprecedented times for small
female business leaders, entrepreneurs, and makers across maker businesses. For example, Espacio Handmade, based in
our supply chain. As part of this effort, in 2021, Amazon Austin, Texas, is a women-owned leather goods business that
Handmade and Nest teamed up to support artisan and maker was highlighted in our 2020 Sustainability Report. Amazon
businesses to increase their sales and impact by leveraging Handmade also featured the business in the “Our Favorite
the power of Amazon’s marketplace. Nest, a nonprofit Finds” section, and within weeks, Espacio Handmade had
supporting the responsible growth and creative engagement received hundreds of orders. Amazon Handmade is proud to
of the artisan and maker economy to drive gender equity, support creative maker and artisan businesses as they navigate
supports a growing network of over 1,600 artisan businesses optimal ways to leverage the direct-to-consumer platform that
across 120 countries. The partnership between Nest and both Amazon and Amazon Handmade provide.
Amazon Handmade led to the launch of a dedicated cohort
of Nest artisan businesses that were promoted through a Learn more on About Amazon .
dedicated gateway on Amazon Handmade.
Gender Equity Training for Workers single mother of two children, and her family depends on
in Our Supply Chain her income alone. Through HERfinance training, Sunita
learned the value of investing and saving for health and
Amazon partners with BSR’s HERproject, an initiative future expenses. The training taught her about financial
that brings together global brands, their suppliers, and planning tools and options to build her savings to support
local partners to create and implement workplace-based her short-term and long-term goals. It also inspired her to
interventions on health, financial inclusion, and respect for open a savings account, where she regularly deposits funds,
women’s rights. Through our BSR partnership, we engage and enabled her to use digital payment tools that support
suppliers in China, Bangladesh, Vietnam, and India. As of fair wage payments. Sunita shared what she learned with
2021, we supported nearly 16,000 workers—including her colleagues, family, and neighbors, so that they also
10,000 women—with trainings on health and financial benefited from the information she received.
skills, and we helped workers and factory management to
combat gender-based discrimination in the workplace. “It is because of this training that I have
started to think about myself and my future,
Sunita Giri is a garment worker at Dhruv Globals Ltd. as I do not want to depend on anyone [in] my
Fair Wages Responsible Recruitment and Freely In 2021, we expanded our relationships with key external
We are committed to working closely with suppliers, business Chosen Employment partners RBA and the International Organization for Migration Standing in Partnership Against
partners, and multistakeholder associations to monitor and Amazon does not tolerate the use of forced labor. Forced (IOM). We also began partnering with the Issara Institute to Child Labor
promote continual improvement in working conditions, labor is a hidden crime that is hard to combat, and workplace address issues of human trafficking and forced labor through
including fair and on-time payment of wages. We have environments and recruitment practices are dynamic. For worker voice, partnership, and innovation. We are working with The UN designated 2021 as International Year for the
dedicated teams across the globe that work directly with vulnerable groups such as foreign migrant workers, we are these organizations to better understand hotspots across our Elimination of Child Labour. Building on our work with
suppliers to track and report performance against these increasing our understanding of forced labor risk across both supply chain so that the rights of workers vulnerable to forced The Centre for Child Rights and Business, Amazon
standards. Our suppliers are required to pay legally required home and destination countries. Worker voice mechanisms labor continue to be respected and promoted. We are also committed to the Joint Action Pledge to strengthen
compensation, including overtime and benefits, and we are important to enable workers to raise issues in a safe working with them to leverage collective industry responses for the protection of children’s rights and accelerate
encourage them to continually evaluate whether their and confidential manner. We recognize real progress in this improved due diligence and develop impactful risk mitigation action to address child labor in global supply chains.
workers earn enough to meet their basic needs and the space will only be achieved through collaborative action— strategies that put the interests of workers first.
needs of their families. by companies, governments, and civil society—to spur Through this commitment, we will work with other
systemwide change. Additionally, we expanded our training on responsible retailers to further extend due diligence, remediation,
Making sure workers are paid fairly is a challenge across recruitment practices to over 50 suppliers through the RBA’s and monitoring activities. This will enable us to
all industries in global supply chains. We are working to With operations and supply chains spanning the globe, we Responsible Labor Initiative and IOM. We also offered worker increase our understanding of child labor in supply
better understand wage payments in our supply chain to are committed to improving the working conditions of people awareness training to workers at sites in high-risk regions to chains, deliver programs to support juvenile workers,
meaningfully engage with suppliers and enhance our due who are connected to our business and recognize the need improve the well-being of foreign migrant workers. These build the capabilities of suppliers to address child labor,
diligence under the UN Guiding Principles on Business and to monitor for conditions that put workers at risk of modern training programs focused on modern slavery risks and the work collaboratively as a group to share learnings, and
Human Rights on this issue. We will continue to enroll our slavery. We work to identify and reduce the risk of forced importance of responsible recruitment, including teaching establish best practices to address child labor.
suppliers in international programs that improve livelihoods, labor. Our Supply Chain Standards prohibit all forms of forced participants how to implement effective risk mitigation
help suppliers invest in worker well-being, and contribute labor and human trafficking, and set requirements aimed at controls, identify issues in their recruitment and hiring processes “ Amazon is committed to ensuring our
to the social and economic development of regions where reducing risk. For example, workers must not be required to for migrant workers, and draft an implementation plan for products and services are provided in
we source and operate. Programs such as SCORE and pay recruitment fees, and suppliers must not retain passports addressing these issues. a way that respects human rights, and
Better Work address the holistic challenges workers face by or personal documentation. During assessments of Amazon- combating forced and child labor in
focusing on improving working conditions and promoting branded suppliers, we track where workers migrated from and global supply chains is an important part
respect for labor rights. An independent impact assessment how much they paid in recruitment fees. If fees have been paid, of that pledge. In this International Year
of the SCORE program found increased productivity and we require the supplier to reimburse workers in full. for the Elimination of Child Labour, we
increased wages for Amazon suppliers participating in are proud to reinforce our commitment by
the program. joining the Joint Action Pledge and look
forward to working collaboratively with
The Centre for Child Rights and Business,
peer companies, and other stakeholders
to strengthen protections for children’s
rights and eliminate child labor.”
Leigh Anne DeWine
Combating Forced Labor • Tech Against Trafficking is a coalition of companies
Amazon is currently working with these organizations to collaborating with global experts to help eradicate
devise holistic approaches to combating forced labor: human trafficking using technology. Amazon sits on the
organization’s steering committee and has leveraged
• Amazon supports Polaris, a nonprofit leading a social the expertise and resources of AWS to help explore and
justice movement to fight sex and labor trafficking at the scale the use of technology solutions across the anti-
massive scale of the problem—25 million people worldwide trafficking field.
deprived of the freedom to choose how they live and work.
Through the U.S. National Human Trafficking Hotline, Polaris • Thorn, an organization that builds technology to defend
has responded to more than 73,000 situations of human children from sexual abuse, leverages AWS machine learning
trafficking since 2007. AWS works with Polaris to infuse tools in its Spotlight product. Spotlight’s sophisticated
cutting-edge technology into its infrastructure to accelerate machine learning capabilities save time for investigators by
the development of the largest known U.S. dataset on automatically flagging ads likely to represent victims of child
trafficking. With the guidance of survivors, Polaris uses sex trafficking. Investigators search Spotlight’s constantly
that data to improve the way trafficking is identified, how growing database of ads and set up automated alerts to
victims and survivors are assisted, and how communities, empower proactive investigations. Spotlight has helped
businesses, and governments can prevent human trafficking identify more than 20,000 child sex trafficking victims.
by transforming the underlying inequities and oppressions
that make it possible. • Amazon is an official corporate sponsor of Truckers
Against Trafficking (TAT), an organization dedicated to
• Amazon is a member of the Responsible Labor Initiative, combating human trafficking in the trucking industry. We
a multi-industry, multistakeholder initiative focused on began incorporating TAT training modules into trainings for
ensuring that the rights of workers vulnerable to forced our internal fleet of drivers to teach them how to identify
labor in global supply chains are consistently respected and respond to potential victims of human trafficking. Since
and promoted. launching this partnership, we have trained over 9,000
Amazon transportation associates.
• Amazon partners with StolenYouth, a Seattle-based
organization with the mission to end child sex trafficking • We support the UK-wide Modern Slavery & Exploitation
in the state of Washington through prevention, connecting Helpline operated by Unseen, investing in its efforts to
trafficked youth to resources and services, and empowering provide immediate and long-term assistance to potential
survivors along their path to recovery and a promising victims of modern slavery and to ensure the helpline’s
future. We support StolenYouth by providing both financial continued growth. The helpline provides direct response and
support and goods donations. services to potential victims of modern slavery and helps
shape trainings and wider services for vulnerable people.
Environmental Protection These organizations are key to helping our suppliers listen Commodities and Traceability sourcing in our supply chains. In 2022, we will implement
We are committed to sourcing products and services that do to their workers and raise awareness of issues in our supply additional smelter due diligence protocols as we work toward
not cause unnecessary environmental harm, and work with chain. We provide our suppliers and service providers with Assessing and Mapping Risk 100% of tin, tungsten, tantalum, and gold mineral smelters
industry experts on ways to understand the environmental these tools in order to help them hear directly from workers Commodity supply chains are complicated and fragmented, and refiners in our supply chain being certified using a
impact of our products. We are a member of the Sustainable about their experiences, and to support the resolution and improved visibility into raw material supply chains better recognized minerals assurance program.
Apparel Coalition, an industrywide group of leading apparel of issues from the workers’ perspectives. Across these enables businesses to identify human rights and labor rights
and footwear brands, retailers, manufacturers, NGOs, mechanisms used in 2021, 92% of closed issues have had violations and hold suppliers accountable.
academic experts, and government organizations working worker verification of remedial actions. Purchasing Practices
to reduce the environmental and social impacts of apparel In 2021, we completed our first commodity and materiality Supplier feedback on our purchasing practices is important
products around the world. As an example of our work in this area, we enrolled our risk assessment for Amazon-branded products and identified in understanding how we can improve supplier relationships
Bangladeshi suppliers in Amader Kotha, a helpline that eight commodities with salient social and environmental risks and understanding our potential impact on human rights in
We encourage our Amazon-branded suppliers to evaluate provides workers in the ready-made garment sector a as a key milestone in the development of our responsible our supply chain. In 2021, Amazon partnered with the Better
their practices using the Coalition’s Higg Index, a tool to safe and effective way to report and resolve workplace commodity sourcing roadmap. Buying Institute to capture anonymous supplier feedback
help manufacturers measure the social and environmental issues. We provide ongoing capacity-building to suppliers on our purchasing practices through an annual survey.
performance of their facilities. We are committed to driving enrolled in Amader Kotha, assisting with grievance handling Focus on Cotton Benchmarked against industry peers, we identified key areas,
adoption of this assessment and helping our suppliers mechanisms and worker voice tools. In our third year of In 2021, we continued to strengthen our efforts to address including planning and forecasting, supplier engagement,
understand their environmental impacts. Our aim is to work working with Amader Kotha, we are seeing significant human rights risks in global cotton supply chains. Amazon and on-time payments, where we can improve practices to
with industry partners and our suppliers to understand impact. More than 88% of workers employed with our joined Better Cotton’s Retailer and Brand Advisory Panel drive a better supplier experience of working with Amazon.
their environmental footprints and set goals to reduce Bangladeshi suppliers reported that they were satisfied with on Traceability to help steer Better Cotton’s initial vision
environmental impacts. the usage of the Amader Kotha Helpline. In 2021, workers and strategy toward achieving more traceable cotton in In 2021, Amazon partnered with Better Buying and other
placed 530 calls to the helpline—86% related to labor issues the coming years. We also participated in the Responsible brands to create an e-learning course to raise awareness
and 4.6% related to safety issues. These cases are resolved Sourcing Network’s initiative YESS: Yarn Ethically & about the importance of the issue.
Access to Effective Grievance Mechanisms directly in partnership with factory management in line Sustainably Sourced. YESS works to address forced labor
We are building our efforts to provide people connected with the helpline’s protocols. in the cotton value chain by providing training to, and
to our value chain with access to effective grievance managing the assessment of, spinners and fabric mills to We are proud to have been part of the effort to
mechanisms as part of our supply chain due diligence and Learn more about our spotlight on worker voice . identify and address forced labor in cotton production. end state-imposed forced labor in Uzbekistan’s
investments in worker well-being, and have added this as cotton sector. In 2019, Amazon signed the
a key commitment area. Focus on Minerals Cotton Campaign’s Uzbek Cotton Pledge with
In 2021, we increased our support for industry collaboration over 300 brands and retailers to raise awareness
We help our suppliers work with a number of global partners toward responsible mineral sourcing. We remain members and oppose the systemic use of forced labor in
to provide supply chain workers with access to effective of the Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Uzbekistan’s cotton production. As of March
grievance mechanisms, including the Amader Kotha Helpline Trade and the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI). We also 2022, the International Labour Organization has
in Bangladesh; Ulula in China, Cambodia, India, Pakistan, enhanced our cobalt due diligence program using the RMI’s independently verified that the government of
and the UK; the amfori SPEAK FOR CHANGE Programme cobalt reporting template. Uzbekistan has ended the practice of state-imposed
in Vietnam; the Responsible Labor Initiative’s Suara Kami forced labor in its cotton sector and the Cotton
helpline in Malaysia; and Sedex Direct Worker Reporting We supported RMI’s Smelter Audit Fund to increase Campaign has lifted the Uzbek Cotton Pledge,
Supplier Assessments We share our supplier assessment data (see Appendix) Our assessment data reflects findings for suppliers evaluated assessment tool, which requires suppliers to provide records
to demonstrate our commitment to transparency and in 2019, 2020, and 2021, and includes assessments of and documentation in real time. We now provide suppliers
We assess our suppliers of Amazon-branded products contribute to industrywide knowledge on complex and suppliers we no longer work with, or with which we never with additional notice of this expectation to help preempt
across four main categories: 1) Labor, 2) Health and Safety, changing supply chain conditions. In 2021, we conducted began a business relationship. Assessments may have transparency issues. In other cases, the increased rate of
3) Environment, and 4) Ethics. These categories are divided 5,952 assessments to help us determine which suppliers found more than one issue listed. We accept assessments findings in specific categories represents industrywide
into subcategories, such as nondiscrimination, emergency to work with and, for those we do engage, to help us completed by qualified independent audit firms based challenges that require industry-level, long-term solutions.
preparedness, hazardous substances, and transparency. understand and continually improve those suppliers’ on our own assessment standards and those of industry We have dedicated teams engaging directly with our
Findings within each subcategory are flagged as High, practices. We utilize three types of assessments: associations, including Sedex, amfori, and RBA; certification suppliers on key safety-, wage-, and working hours-related
Medium, or Low depending on the level of severity. Amazon standard Social Accountability International (SA8000); and findings. We recognize that we cannot address many of these
focuses on setting a high bar for new suppliers and refusing • Pre-Production Assessments: Suppliers must submit the Better Work program. systemic issues alone, and we are committed to engaging in
to go to production until suppliers remediate High-level an Amazon-approved assessment of their facilities industry-level interventions in order to drive improvement
findings identified in our assessments. We recognize that before beginning production of Amazon-branded Our assessment data helps us determine where to focus our in working conditions. We are dedicated to working with
some issues may take time to effectively remediate. For products (28% of assessments conducted in 2021 efforts and resources, and provides insight into industrywide our suppliers to understand root causes and build strong
Medium-level issues, we expect suppliers to show they were Pre-Production Assessments). challenges and systemic issues. We are continually innovating management systems to address and mitigate issues.
are making meaningful progress toward remediation to include new assessment types and data sources in
within a defined timeline. For Low-level issues, we monitor • Ongoing Assessments: Suppliers must submit Amazon- our due diligence program. We attribute the increase in Learn more about our supplier assessments .
suppliers for continual improvement. We have dedicated approved assessments on an ongoing basis while producing transparency issues to the 2021 introduction of a remote
teams based in key sourcing countries around the globe Amazon products (51% of assessments conducted in 2021
that work directly with our suppliers to identify solutions to were Ongoing Assessments).
challenging problems and promote open dialogue. We seek
to create long-term relationships with suppliers that align • Verification Assessments: Where issues are identified,
with our values and are committed to constantly improving suppliers must develop a corrective action plan detailing
conditions. Where we see trends in issues beyond individual actions to address identified issues and a long-term
suppliers, such as widespread health and safety deficits or plan to prevent reoccurrence, and where necessary,
industrywide failures to responsibly protect migrant workers, must undergo a follow-up assessment to remediate
we work to define regional or global strategies to address issues (21% of assessments conducted in 2021 were
underlying systemic challenges. Verification Assessments).
Supporting Our Our Approach Supporting Charitable Organizations
With AmazonSmile Donations
Communities Working alongside community partners, we create solutions
to some of the world’s most pressing challenges and build AmazonSmile makes it easier for Amazon customers
long-term programs that have a lasting, positive impact. to give back to charitable causes with just one click.
Amazon’s culture is built around We work to address immediate needs, such as reducing AmazonSmile is available in the U.S., Germany, and the
solving impossible problems—a hunger and homelessness, providing affordable housing, and UK, and offers customers the opportunity to support
serving communities in need following natural disasters. We their favorite charity from a list of over a million
culture we know has the power to
also look to the future, by providing programs that support organizations. Amazon donates 0.5% of the purchase
drive meaningful change. We look science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education price of eligible orders to the chosen charity. Customers
to leverage our scale for good and and skills training. can also donate items directly to charities using
AmazonSmile Charity Lists.
use our ability to innovate quickly
to strengthen communities around Access to Food and Basic Needs AmazonSmile donations support charities ranging from
the world where our employees global humanitarian efforts and animal welfare groups
We help address urgent issues faced by children and families to parent-teacher associations and local hospitals.
live and work.
from underserved communities by improving access to food Organizations around the world have been able to
and basic necessities. We leverage our logistics network expand their work and make a meaningful impact in
to support food banks and community organizations, their communities thanks to these donations and the
delivering groceries and pre-packaged meals directly to customers who choose to shop using AmazonSmile.
20M 225M+ vulnerable families.
“ Donations from AmazonSmile support Save
We also work to eliminate barriers to learning by providing the Children’s work in the U.S. and around
Meals delivered as of 2021 In-kind donated items,
students with clothing, hygiene products, and other the world. With funds from AmazonSmile
in 25+ U.S. cities, as well as including personal
supplies that help them focus on their studies. We donate donations, Save the Children can provide
in communities in Australia, protective equipment
to nonprofits supporting school districts in Washington temporary learning centers for more
Japan, Singapore, Spain, and essentials, in 2021
and the UK state’s Puget Sound region, Northern Virginia, and Nashville, than 3,500 children who are out of school
Tennessee. As of 2021, Amazon has provided more than amid conflict, deliver food for more than
$8 million and 50,000 instances of support to students 14,000 children missing meals due to the
~4K 12M
and their families since 2018. pandemic, and equip 14 mobile health
units, ensuring vital care to thousands
Nonprofits supported In-kind donations of
more. We couldn’t do it without you.”
across the U.S. in 2021 school supplies and other
through in-kind personal essential items to meet
Perry Yeatman
protective equipment hyperlocal community
Head of Corporate, Save the Children U.S.
donations needs in communities
where we operate
Health Equity for Communities • Whole Cities Foundation expands healthy food access Sourced for Good scholarships, planting trees, and more—with millions of
and nutrition education by partnering with community-led In 2021, Whole Foods Market launched Sourced for Good , dollars raised annually for hundreds of communities across
In 2021, AWS committed $40 million over three years to help organizations to build thriving local food systems. an exclusive program dedicated to helping customers easily 12 countries.
organizations develop solutions to improve health outcomes identify products that support workers, communities, and
for underserved or underrepresented communities. The • Whole Kids Foundation supports schools and inspires environmental stewardship where our products are sourced.
program is open to organizations around the world that families to improve children’s nutrition and wellness. With our Sourced for Good seal, we are committed to Supporting Local Producers
want to harness AWS technology and expertise to advance demystifying the decision-making process by helping our We support local food producers through Whole Foods
health equity in any of the following areas: Each quarter, Whole Foods Market supports nearly 500 customers easily identify these products. Market. In addition to featuring local products in our stores,
community-based nonprofits with aligned missions and we are providing loans to small, local, independent farmers
• Increasing access to health services for values through the Team Member Directed Giving program. Customers can find the Sourced for Good seal on more than and artisanal food producers to help them expand their
underserved communities This program is led by local team member networks and 100 products in stores, including on bananas, asparagus, businesses through the Whole Foods Local Producer Loan
• Reducing disparities by addressing social determinants focuses on addressing specific needs within each community peppers, tomatoes, and tulips. We’ve also expanded the Program . Loan recipients have included organic vegetable
of health we serve. From October to December 2021 alone, program to seafood as well as to domestic suppliers, as we farmers, a heritage turkey grower, a nutritional protein bar
• Leveraging data to promote more equitable and Whole Foods Market donated more than $1.1 million to strive to serve more communities. Purchasing Sourced for maker, and many others. The Local Producer Loan Program
inclusive systems of care 489 nonprofits in the U.S. and Canada. Good products directly contributes to causes that Whole has provided more than 370 loans since 2007, representing
Foods Market and our customers champion, including $26 million in capital, to our suppliers. In 2021 alone, more
This program gives organizations another way to access AWS fair wages, ethical trade, improved health care access, than $536,000 was awarded through six loans.
credits and technical expertise to advance their missions.
In collaboration with local nonprofits, AWS also launched
community development initiatives in villages adjoining AWS
infrastructure sites in West Java, Indonesia, and Telangana, Celebrating 10 Years of Growing 10 years of impact through Whole Kids Foundation:
India. Initiatives include renovation of schools, provision of Healthy Kids
clean water facilities, toilets, waste management systems, 10M 7K+
hyperlocal environmental initiatives, and skill development Ten years ago, a cash register campaign—as well as the
programs for local youth. enthusiasm of contributing team members and customers— Students Gardens
planted a seed of an idea, which eventually grew into Whole
Kids Foundation. The idea: Given the right opportunities, kids
12K+ 6K+
Whole Foods Market will get excited about fresh fruits, vegetables, whole grains,
and other nutritious whole foods. Since its founding in 2011,
Schools Salad bars
Whole Foods Market was founded with the purpose to nourish Whole Kids Foundation’s community investments in the
people and the planet. To make an impact in our communities, U.S., Canada, and the UK have increased access to nutritious
22K+ 700
Whole Foods Market has three foundations to support school food and transformed the way students eat and think
strategic programs that make an impact across the globe: about food. The Foundation facilitates environments and
partnerships to create lasting change. Trained teachers Beehives
• Whole Planet Foundation is committed to alleviating global
Fresh Thinking in Disaster Disaster Relief and Response In addition, we provide support and financial assistance,
Relief Planning often in the form of grants, to employees and partners
Amazon’s disaster relief and response efforts leverage our facing unexpected hardship. In 2021, we provided more
To enable an even faster response to natural disasters, innovative technologies and global logistics network to than 19,000 grants, totaling $14 million, for natural disaster
we opened our first disaster relief hub in our Atlanta provide fast and effective aid for communities impacted relief, including hardship due to a COVID-19 diagnosis or
fulfillment center in 2021—a major advancement in by natural disasters. We have filled cargo jets and shipped quarantine. We also supported nearly 1,800 employees,
disaster relief planning. truckloads of Amazon-donated items to communities across partners, and their families with nearly 100,000 essential
the globe. We also enable customers to donate products items, nearly 17,000 hot meals, and critical personal services
It can take multiple days to respond to a natural disaster and cash on Amazon.com and we help disaster response such as housing, transportation, and counseling.
and assess, procure, consolidate, and pack supplies. To organizations expedite their response efforts at scale
accelerate this process, Amazon analyzed data across four through AWS. Since 2017, we have donated more than
years of support to prepare ahead of hurricane season in 18 million relief supplies and emergency aid items, including 28
the U.S. and Caribbean. flashlights, tents, and search and rescue equipment.
Natural disasters Amazon
We donated and pre-stocked over 500,000 relief In 2021, Amazon supported global communities impacted
provided relief for in 2021
supplies in our hub, which spans 10,000 cubic feet— by natural disasters, including:
big enough to fill an Amazon Air 767 cargo plane. This
18M+
preparation ensured readiness for helping six of Amazon’s • Severe floods in Western Europe and
humanitarian relief partners, and the hub was instrumental New South Wales, Australia
Relief supplies Amazon
in providing support to Louisiana communities following • Wildfires in Turkey and Canada
has donated and delivered
Hurricane Ida. • A tornado in the Czech Republic
since 2017
• A volcanic eruption in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
“ Amazon’s donation of critical relief supplies • Monsoon season in India
and advance pre-positioning efforts allow • An earthquake in Haiti
the American Red Cross to stand ready to • Winter storms in Texas, Mississippi, Tennessee, and Alabama
help at a moment’s notice. We’re honored
to count Amazon as one of our most valued Through the AWS Disaster Preparedness and Response
partners and are grateful for their continued program, we work alongside governments, nonprofits,
support to fulfill our mission.” international aid organizations, and private entities. We offer
support through cloud computing technology, technical
Trevor Riggen expertise, and volunteer time to help communities at every
Senior Vice President, Disaster Cycle Services, American stage of a disaster lifecycle.
Red Cross
Skills Training and STEM The AWS Infrastructure Community Engagement Program
Education Programs 1.8M (AWS InCommunities) forges local relationships and creates community-
focused programs where AWS builds, operates, and is expanding our
Amazon believes in the power of education to unlock Students reached through Amazon physical infrastructure. AWS InCommunities focuses on four key pillars:
human potential, which is why we are investing in a range Future Engineer in 2021
of subjects and tools to help children, higher education 1. STEM/STEAM (STEM + arts) education, equity, and access
students, and adults tap into their potential. Amazon Future Engineer also awards 250 students in 2. Local tech upskilling
the U.S. each year with $40,000 scholarships and paid 3. Environmental stewardship
Skills training and STEM education can have a big impact internships at Amazon, as well as honoring Teacher of the 4. Employee engagement
in an increasingly digitized, technological world, and we Year Award winners with more than $30,000 for themselves
are helping people pursue careers of the future through and their schools. In addition, AWS InCommunities’ Signature Programs use AWS’ unique
computer science and coding skills. In 2020, we pledged to resources to develop or inspire future builders from underrepresented
help 29 million people around the world grow their technical Through Amazon Future Engineer, Amazon announced a and underserved communities. These include Girls’ Tech Day, AWS
skills with free cloud computing skills training by 2025. To new Advanced Placement Computer Science programming Tech Week, Family Tech Series, and Think Big Space.
support this commitment, we have a number of initiatives, curriculum , in partnership with Code.org. Designed with
ranging from equipping higher education institutions with equity at its core, the curriculum is intended to empower 10K+ 1.2M
a free, ready-to-teach cloud curriculum to helping teachers every student, regardless of their background, to envision
bring coding classes to rural areas, and inspiring girls and themselves using computer science to bring their dreams
Employee volunteer hours Positive community
young women to pursue careers in tech. Our programs to life.
interactions
include Amazon Future Engineer , AWS Training and
Certification , AWS re/Start , AWS Academy , AWS AWS launched a $10 million scholarship program to
Technology Ireland
Educate , AWS Think Big Experience , our partnership prepare underrepresented and underserved students
with Girls in Tech , and AWS GetIT . globally for careers in machine learning. In addition, the
CSR Award
AWS InCommunities Scholarship Program offers a
For example, Amazon Future Engineer is our global total of $100,000 in scholarships to students from U.S. Received for our “Take on a Cause” program sponsoring nonprofits
childhood-to-career computer science program created states where AWS has data center operations to support and community groups
to inspire and educate thousands of students each year their higher education ambitions in STEM. The program
from underserved and underrepresented communities. As is open to students enrolling in courses such as electrical Special Commendation
part of this program, students explore computer science and electronics engineering, computer science, artificial
by meeting actual Amazon employees in virtual live career intelligence, biochemistry, software engineering, and Award
talks or explorations of our real-world innovations. In 2021, physics. Since 2019, AWS has awarded 120 scholarships
Amazon Future Engineer reached 1.8 million students, and to students across four U.S. states. Received from the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce &
it is now available in the U.S., the UK, India, France, Germany, Industry for our contributions to COVID-19 relief efforts in India
and Canada.
Housing Equity
$1.2B+
We believe that all people should have access to housing
they can afford. In January 2021, Amazon launched
Loans and grants funded
the Amazon Housing Equity Fund , a commitment of
over $2 billion to preserve and create more than 20,000
8K+
affordable homes in three communities where we have a
high concentration of employees: Washington state’s Puget
Affordable homes created
Sound region; Washington, D.C., and Arlington, Virginia; and
or preserved
Nashville, Tennessee.
The Housing Equity Fund helps create inclusive housing 18K+
developments and preserve existing housing through
low-rate loans and grants to community-based People supported
organizations, mission-driven housing providers, traditional
and nontraditional public agencies, and minority-
led organizations.
As of March 2022, the Amazon Housing Equity Fund had
a significant, positive impact on rental affordability in
communities Amazon calls home, with more than $1.2 billion
in loans and grants committed. These commitments have
preserved or created over 8,000 affordable units to house
more than 18,000 people.
Learn more about our progress in
our Housing Equity Fund Impact Report .
In This Section
Corporate Governance
Business Ethics
Advocacy and Public Policy
Partnerships
Governance
Governing for an Agile,
Resilient, and Responsible
Amazon
Strong governance is behind the culture of
invention and curiosity that has driven our
business across regions and industries. Today,
our focus is on implementing best practice
governance principles to operate an ethical
business that our stakeholders trust.
Corporate Board Leadership and Risk Oversight Board and Committee Engagement in 2021 The Leadership Development and Compensation Committee
The Board meets regularly during the year, holds special held six formal meetings during 2021 and reviewed matters
Governance Amazon’s Board of Directors regularly reviews reports on meetings, and acts by unanimous written consent whenever that included:
various aspects of our business, including related risks and circumstances require. During 2021, there were five meetings
the strategies for addressing them. While the entire Board of the Board. In addition, the Board participated in regularly • Design, amounts, and effectiveness of Amazon’s
has overall responsibility for risk oversight, the Board has scheduled teleconference discussions on various topics, compensation for senior executives
Amazon’s Board of Directors is
delegated responsibility for certain risks to its committees. generally on a monthly basis. • Management succession planning
responsible for the control and
• Our benefit and compensation programs
direction of Amazon. The Board The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee held • Our human resources programs, including review of
oversees management of risks related to our environmental, four formal meetings during 2021 and reviewed matters workplace discrimination and harassment reports, worker
represents the shareholders, and
sustainability, and corporate social responsibility practices, that included: safety and workplace conditions, and diversity, equity, and
its primary purpose is to build
including risks related to our operations and our supply chain. inclusion matters
long-term shareholder value. • The Board’s composition, diversity, and skills in the context • Feedback from shareholder engagement
The Leadership Development and Compensation Committee of identifying and evaluating new director candidates to
oversees management of risks related to succession join the Board The Audit Committee held seven formal meetings during
planning, compensation for our executive officers, and our • The Board’s recruitment and self-evaluation processes 2021 and reviewed matters that included:
overall compensation program, including our equity-based • Board compensation
compensation plans, as well as risks related to other human • Board Committee membership and qualifications • Our risk assessment and compliance functions
capital management matters, including workplace safety, • Consideration of Amazon’s policies and initiatives regarding • Data privacy and security3
culture, diversity, discrimination, and harassment. the environment and sustainability, corporate social • Public policy expenditures
responsibility, and corporate governance • Treasury and investment matters
The Audit Committee oversees management of risks related • Feedback from shareholder engagement • Tax matters
to our financial statements and financial reporting process, • Accounting industry issues
business continuity, and operational risks, the qualifications, • The performance of our internal audit function
independence, and performance of our independent • The reappointment of our independent auditor
auditors, the performance of our internal audit function, • Pending litigation
legal and regulatory matters, and our compliance policies
and procedures.
Learn more about our committee charters
on our Investor Relations website .
Board Diversity Matrix Shareholder Engagement
We believe that effective corporate governance includes
year-round engagement with our shareholders and other
Total Number of Directors 11
stakeholders. In a typical year, we will engage with dozens
of shareholders, including our largest shareholders, two to
Female Male
three times. This outreach is complementary to the hundreds
Directors 5 6 of touchpoints our Investor Relations team has with
shareholders each year. We find it beneficial to have ongoing
Number of Directors Who Identify dialogue with our shareholders throughout the year on a full
in Any of the Categories Below: range of investor priorities. Depending on the circumstance,
our lead director or another independent director may
African American or Black 1 –
engage in these conversations with shareholders as well.
Asian 1 –
In 2021, as part of our corporate governance engagement,
White 3 6
we met with corporate governance representatives at
shareholders owning over 35% of our stock (not counting
Board Diversity the approximately 13% voted by our founder and Executive
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Chair) and responded to numerous letters from our investors.
seeks out candidates with a diversity of experience and Our direct engagement with shareholders helps us better
perspectives, including diversity with respect to race, gender, understand our shareholders’ priorities, perspectives, and
geography, and areas of expertise. The Nominating and issues of concern while giving us an opportunity to elaborate
Corporate Governance Committee includes, and has any on our many initiatives and practices and to address the
search firm that it engages include, women, individuals from extent to which various aspects of these matters are (or
underrepresented racial/ethnic groups, and individuals who are not) significant given the scope and nature of our
identify as LGBTQ+ in the pool from which the Committee operations and our existing practices. We take insights
selects director candidates. When considering candidates as from this feedback into consideration and regularly share
potential Board members, the Board and the Nominating them with our Board as we review and evolve our practices
and Corporate Governance Committee evaluate the and disclosures.
candidates’ ability to contribute to such diversity. The Board
assesses its effectiveness in this regard as part of its annual
Board and director evaluation process. Currently, of our nine
independent director nominees, five are women, two are
from underrepresented racial/ethnic groups, and three have
served for five years or less.
Business Bribery and Corruption Data Privacy Whistleblowing
Ethics Amazon has zero tolerance for bribery and corruption in Amazon understands that customers care how their personal Amazon provides secure and accessible channels where
any form for any of our businesses. Our anti-corruption data is collected, used, and shared, and we work every day to employees can raise concerns and report violations in
compliance program is implemented as part of a centralized earn and maintain customer trust. Across all of our products confidence and without risk of reprisal.
global compliance program, led by the Vice President for and services, our principled approach to privacy begins
Amazon encourages and enforces
Business Conduct and Ethics. The program is grounded in our with transparency, customer control, and security. As described in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics,
strict adherence to local, state,
Code of Conduct, which is supported by numerous additional employees can speak with anyone in their management
federal, and international laws. policies, procedures, and other communications, and includes We inform our customers of our privacy and data security chain or the Legal Department when they have a question
an outright prohibition on bribery of any kind. policies, practices, and technologies through our privacy about the application of the Code of Conduct or when in
Our Code of Business Conduct
notices, including the Amazon.com Privacy Notice and the doubt about how to properly act in a particular situation.
and Ethics (Code of Conduct)
Our Business Conduct and Ethics program includes a risk AWS Privacy Notice . We are also enhancing cybersecurity The Legal Department has provided guidelines for how
outlines the behavior we expect assessment and compliance goal-setting process that awareness beyond Amazon by offering the training we use employees can report concerns. We do not allow retaliation
gathers broader business input through regular client for our own employees free to individuals and businesses. against an employee for reporting misconduct by others
from employees regarding
interviews, a whistleblower hotline, centralized investigation in good faith. Employees must cooperate in internal
potential ethical issues such as
and reporting of violations, due diligence processes designed investigations of potential or alleged misconduct, and
conflicts of interest, insider trading, to detect potential compliance issues before engaging in Data Privacy Oversight those who violate the Code of Conduct will be subject to
discrimination and harassment, transactions with third parties, and a wide variety of online An ad hoc committee of the Board appointed in 2022 disciplinary action up to and including discharge.
and in-person training about compliance-related topics and receives reports from management and reports to the
and compliance.
the company’s compliance policies. Board at least annually on data protection and cybersecurity In addition, suggestions or complaints emailed to a member
matters. This committee also reviews the measures of the senior leadership team are considered Executive
Amazon has extensive controls relating to financial implemented by Amazon to identify and mitigate data Escalations. Any employee can utilize this method of
transactions, through which groups such as accounting, protection and cybersecurity risks. Amazon requires providing a suggestion or raising a concern to leadership.
finance operations services, accounts payable, and payroll employees with access to information systems, including All escalations are independently reviewed by Human
all own processes that identify, monitor, and evaluate risks all corporate employees, to undertake data protection and Resources, used as a learning opportunity, and may be used
including fraud, misappropriation of assets, corruption, and cybersecurity training and compliance programs annually. to update our processes to prevent gaps in the future.
the integrity of financial reporting. Other control functions
such as finance, procurement, and internal audit all work
together with the Business Conduct and Ethics team to
prevent, detect, and deter corruption.
Advocacy and Our Approach Supporting Our Principles We publish an annual political engagement report on
our Investor Relations website. The statement details our
Public Policy We engage with authorities at the local, state, national, We believe that the public and private sectors must act lobbying activities in the U.S. and discloses our specific
and international levels to oversee the seamless operations together to address the world’s most pressing challenges. spending on ballot initiatives and public organizations, as
of our international business through different legislative We advocate on various topics that are material to well as with representatives at state and local levels.
demands and compliance requirements. Our Public Policy our business, including climate action, community
We operate in regions all over the
teams work with a wide range of policymakers, multilateral empowerment, immigration reform, and more. We seek out
world, and remain committed to
organizations, industry associations, coalitions, and other opportunities to partner with the public sector to advance
giving customers everywhere the partners across numerous regulatory and policy issues. Like new technologies, invest in needed solutions, and support
our business interests, our policy issues are broad, forward public policies that provide certainty and advance innovation.
same standard of excellence.
thinking, and driven by what is best for our customers.
In 2021, we supported the U.S. federal government’s
We have publicly stated our position on several key issues. actions to address climate change. This included supporting
These include, but are not limited to: emissions-reducing investments in the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law and the climate provisions in the proposed
• Our belief that the minimum federal wage should be raised Build Back Better legislation. We advocated for alternative
• Our statement that bold action is needed to combat human- fuel vehicles, electric vehicle charging infrastructure,
induced climate change sustainable aviation fuels, renewable electricity data, federal
• Our recognition of the fundamental importance of diversity, fleet electrification, wind and solar energy, and low-carbon
equity, and inclusion research and development. We also joined the We Mean
• Our support for the Black, LGBTQ+, and Business Coalition in calling for the U.S. to set as soon
indigenous communities as possible an ambitious and attainable goal to reduce
• Our commitment to access to affordable housing emissions by 2030. We also publicly supported the low-
• Our belief in the protection of data privacy carbon fuels standard proposed by the state of Washington.
• Our support for common sense immigration reform
• Our commitment to help promote democracy and respect In addition, we continued to advocate for higher federal and
for human rights state minimum wages and renewed our commitment to
immigrant rights and immigration reform . We collaborated
Learn more about each of these positions with the public sector on housing equity and called for
on About Amazon . greater support and funding for computer science education in
public schools , especially in underrepresented communities.
Learn more about our advocacy and public policy work
on About Amazon .
Partnerships
• Advanced Energy Buyers Group • Closed Loop Partners, Closed Loop Infrastructure Fund • Responsible Sourcing Network
• Advanced Energy Economy • Corporate Electric Vehicle Alliance • Sedex
• Amader Kotha Helpline • Ellen MacArthur Foundation • SolarPower Europe
Partnerships enhance our impact • American Clean Power Association • Feeding America • StolenYouth
• American Council on Renewable Energy • First Movers Coalition • Sustainable Apparel Coalition
and help support sustainability
• amfori • Global Logistics Emissions Council • Sustaining Competitive and Responsible Enterprises
efforts beyond Amazon. We
• Article One Advisors • Global Optimism • Swasti
collaborate with credible, • Aspen Institute • Good360 • Tech Against Trafficking
• Better Buying Institute • Green Chemistry & Commerce Council • Textile Exchange
knowledgeable, and innovative
• Better Cotton • In Kind Direct • The Centre for Child Rights and Business
industry partners around the
• Better Work • International Center for Research on Women Advisors • The Mara Partners
world who share our vision. • Bipartisan Policy Center • International Organization for Migration • The Nature Conservancy
• Brand Ethical Working Group • Issara Institute • The Recycling Partnership
• Building Transparency • Japan Climate Leaders’ Partnership • Thorn
• Business Alliance to Scale Climate Solutions • Leather Working Group • Truckers Against Trafficking
• Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) • Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest finance Coalition • U.S. Cotton Trust Protocol
• BSR HERproject • Nest • United States Council for International Business
• Carbon Leadership Forum • Open Apparel Registry • Unseen
• Cargo Owners for Zero Emission Vessels • PATH • We Mean Business Coalition
• Catalyst Management Services • Polaris • WindEurope
• Center for Climate and Energy Solutions • Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade • World Business Council for Sustainable Development
• Ceres • RE-Source Platform • World Economic Forum, 1t.org
• City Harvest London • Renewable Energy Demand Enhancement Initiative, India
• Clean Energy Buyers Association • Resilience Fund for Women in Global Value Chains
• Clean Energy Demand Initiative • Responsible Business Alliance
• Clean Energy Investment Accelerator Indonesia • Responsible Labor Initiative
• Climate Neutral Data Centre Pact • Responsible Minerals Initiative
In This Section
SASB
UNGP Reporting Framework
TCFD
UN SDGs
Carbon Footprint Data
Supplier Assessments
Workforce Data
Disclaimer and Forward-
Appendix Looking Statements
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
SASB is an independent standards board that is accountable for the due process, outcomes, and ratification of the SASB Standards, which seek to identify financially material sustainability
information. The table below lists topics classified as applicable to the E-commerce industry. This table includes a selection of metrics from the full SASB index.
Metric Code Disclosure
Hardware Infrastructure Energy and Water Management
(1) Total energy consumed, CG-EC-130a.1 In 2021, Amazon consumed 30.88 million megawatt-hours of electricity and reached 85% renewable energy across our business. Read more about our path to achieving 100%
(2) percentage grid electricity, renewable energy by 2025 on pages 20–21.
(3) percentage renewable
Discussion of the integration of environmental considerations into strategic CG-EC-130a.3 AWS carefully chooses our data center locations to mitigate environmental risk, such as flooding, extreme weather, and seismic activity. We also leverage weather data from the
planning for data center needs Amazon Sustainability Data Initiative to better assess the impact of weather on AWS data centers. Read more about how we are innovating for sustainability in the cloud on
pages 35–38.
Data Privacy and Advertising Standards
Description of policies and practices relating to behavioral advertising and CG-EC-220a.2 Interest-based ads are sometimes referred to as personalized or targeted ads. We show interest-based ads to display features, products, and services. Amazon offers all customers the
user privacy choice to not receive interest-based ads through Amazon Advertising Preferences . See Interest-Based Ads , Amazon.com Privacy Notice , and About Cookies .
Data Security
Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security risks CG-EC-230a.1 We design our systems with customer security and privacy in mind. We work to protect the security of personal information during transmission by using encryption protocols and
software. We maintain physical, electronic, and procedural safeguards in connection with the collection, storage, and disclosure of personal customer information. Our security
procedures mean that we may occasionally request proof of identity before we disclose personal information to customers. Our devices offer security features to protect them
against unauthorized access and loss of data. Users can control these features and configure them based on their needs. We follow the Payment Card Industry Data Security
Standard when handling credit card data. See Amazon.com Privacy Notice .
In addition, AWS architects our network, services, and data centers to protect AWS customers’ information, identities, applications, and devices. See AWS Cloud Security and
AWS Privacy Notice .
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
Metric Code Disclosure
Employee Recruitment, Inclusion, and Performance
Employee engagement as a percentage CG-EC-330a.1 Connections is a real-time, companywide employee feedback mechanism, designed to listen to and learn from employees at scale to improve the employee experience. Connections
questions are delivered to every Amazon employee daily across 55 countries and in 26 languages, generating more than 1.5 million responses each day. Read more about our
approach to employee engagement on pages 57–58.
Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group representation for CG-EC-330a.3 As of December 31, 2021, among people managers globally, 30.8% identify as women and 69.2% identify as men. Among people managers in the U.S., 19.9% identify as Asian,
(1) management, 12% as Black, 10.9% as Latinx, 3.3% as Multiracial, 0.7% as Native American, and 53.1% as White.
(2) technical staff, and
(3) all other employees As of December 31, 2021, among senior leaders globally, 23.1% identify as women and 76.9% identify as men. Among senior leaders in the U.S., 21.5% identify as Asian, 5.5% as
Black, 4.5% as Latinx, 1.8% as Multiracial, 0.2% as Native American, and 66.4% as White.
As of December 31, 2021, among all employees globally, 44.8% identify as women and 55.2% identify as men. Among all employees in the U.S., 13.2% identify as Asian, 28.2% as
Black, 23.6% as Latinx, 3.3% as Multiracial, 1.5% as Native American, and 30.2% as White.
See our workforce data on pages 56 and 99 .
Product Packaging and Distribution
Total greenhouse gas (GHG) footprint of product shipments CG-EC-410a.1 See our carbon footprint on page 97.
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
Metric Code Disclosure
Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental impact of CG-EC-410a.2 Shipment Zero is our goal to deliver 50% of Amazon shipments with net-zero carbon by 2030 through sustainable process improvements, recycled materials, investments in vehicle
product delivery electrification, renewable energy initiatives, and more. In 2021, more than 100 million packages were delivered to our customers’ doorsteps across Europe with a fleet of over 3,000
electric delivery vans and other zero-emission vehicles. Also in 2021, more than half a million packages were delivered to our customers’ doorsteps in North America with electric
vehicles (EVs). Approximately 8% of Amazon shipments were delivered to customers in North America and Europe without additional packaging in 2021.
To decarbonize our transportation network, we are deploying zero-emission vehicles, using low-carbon fuels, investing in emerging technologies, and collaborating to accelerate
cross-sector innovation. In 2019, we ordered 100,000 custom electric delivery vehicles from Rivian and thousands more from manufacturers such as Stellantis and Mahindra
Electric. We started deploying battery EV trucks across our heavy commercial trucking fleets and began switching to vehicles that use alternative fuel sources, like compressed
natural gas trucks. Micromobility technologies, such as cargo bikes and walkers, are used to deliver packages in urban settings. Read more about how we are decarbonizing our
transportation on pages 24–25.
To reinvent and simplify our sustainable packaging options, we use a science-based approach that combines lab testing, machine learning, materials science, and manufacturing
partnerships to scale sustainable change across the packaging supply chain. Frustration-Free Packaging is our flagship program to offer more-sustainable packaging that is easy to
open, fully recyclable, and capable of shipping without additional packaging protection. Since 2015, we have reduced per-shipment packaging weight by 38% and eliminated over
1.5 million tons of packaging. Read more about how we are improving our packaging on pages 28–29.
With 274 renewable energy projects announced as of the end of 2021, Amazon is the world’s largest corporate purchaser of renewable energy and is on a path to powering our
operations with 100% renewable energy by 2025—five years ahead of our original target of 2030. See our public methodology for more on our approach. As of 2021, 115 of our
global fulfillment facilities are powered by on-site solar, where a rooftop installation can power up to 80% of the facility’s energy use. Read more about our investments in renewable
energy on pages 20–21.
Activity Metrics
Entity-defined measure of user activity CG-EC-000.A There are more than 200 million paid Prime members around the world.
UN Guiding Principles (UNGP) Reporting Framework
The UNGP Reporting Framework provides comprehensive guidance for companies to report on human rights issues in line with their responsibility to respect human
rights. This is an index of Amazon’s public content related to each subsection of the UNGP Reporting Framework and represents information as of June 2022.
Section Indicator/Question References and Links
Policy Commitment A1 W hat does the company say publicly about its commitment to • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
respect human rights? • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society (Human Rights, pages 41–45 ; Supply Chain, pages 61–68 ); Governance (Advocacy and Public Policy, page 78 ))
• 2022 Proxy Statement
• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
• Global Human Rights Principles
• Our Positions
• Supply Chain Standards Manual
• Supply Chain Standards
A1.1 H ow has the public commitment been developed? • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
• 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society (Human Rights, pages 41–45 ))
• Global Human Rights Principles
A1.2 W hose human rights does the public commitment address? • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
• 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society, pages 41–68 )
• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
• Global Human Rights Principles
• Supply Chain Standards Manual
• Supply Chain Standards
A1.3 H ow is the public commitment disseminated? • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
• 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society, pages 39–73 )
• 2022 Proxy Statement
• Global Human Rights Principles
• Supply Chain Standards Manual
• Supply Chain Standards
UN Guiding Principles (UNGP) Reporting Framework
Section Indicator/Question References and Links
Embedding Respect A2 H ow does the company demonstrate the importance it attaches to • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
the implementation of its human rights commitment? • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society (Human Rights, pages 41–45 ; Supply Chain, pages 61–68 ))
• 2022 Proxy Statement
• Corporate Governance Documents and Charters
• Supply Chain Standards Manual
A2.1 H ow is day-to-day responsibility for human rights performance • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
organized within the company, and why? • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society (Human Rights, pages 41–45 ; Supply Chain, pages 61–68 ))
• Corporate Governance Documents and Charters
A2.2 W hat kinds of human rights issues are discussed by senior • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
management and by the Board and why? • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society (Human Rights, pages 41–45 ); Governance (Corporate Governance, page 75 ))
• 2022 Proxy Statement
• Corporate Governance Documents and Charters
A2.3 H ow are employees and contract workers made aware of the ways • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
in which respect for human rights should inform their decisions • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society, pages 41–68 )
and actions? • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
• Global Human Rights Principles
A2.4 H ow does the company make clear in its business relationships the • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
importance it places on respect for human rights? • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society (Human Rights, pages 41–45 ; Supply Chain, pages 61–68 ))
• Seller Central Policies
• Supply Chain Standards Manual
• Supply Chain Standards
A2.5 W hat lessons has the company learned during the reporting period • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
about achieving respect for human rights, and what has changed • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society (Human Rights, pages 41–45 ; Supply Chain, pages 61–68 ))
as a result?
UN Guiding Principles (UNGP) Reporting Framework
Section Indicator/Question References and Links
Statement of Salient Issues B1 S tatement of salient human rights issues associated with the • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
company’s activities and business relationships during the • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society (Human Rights, pages 41–45 ); Partnerships, page 79 )
reporting period. • 2022 Proxy Statement
• Amazon France Logistique S.A.S. Duty of Vigilance Plan 2021
• Global Human Rights Principles
Explanation of B2 D escribe how the salient human rights issues were determined, • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
Salient Issues including any input from stakeholders. • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society (Human Rights, pages 41–45 ; Supply Chain, pages 61–68 ); Partnerships, page 79 )
• Amazon France Logistique S.A.S. Duty of Vigilance Plan 2021
Geographical Focus B3 I f reporting on the salient human rights issues focuses on particular • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
geographies, explain how that choice was made. • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society (Supply Chain, pages 61–68 ))
Additional Severe Impacts B4 I dentify any severe impacts on human rights that occurred or were • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement (See Modern Slavery in the Context of COVID-19, page 14)
still being addressed during the reporting period, but which fall • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society, pages 46–68 )
outside the salient human rights issues, and explain how they have • Amazon France Logistique S.A.S. Duty of Vigilance Plan 2021
been addressed. • Our Positions
Specific Policies C1 D oes the company have any specific policies that address its salient • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
human rights issues, and if so, what are they? • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society (Human Rights, pages 41–45 ; Supply Chain, pages 61–68 ))
• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
• Global Human Rights Principles
• Our Positions
• Supply Chain Standards Manual
• Supply Chain Standards
C1.1 H ow does the company make clear the relevance and significance • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
of such policies to those who need to implement them? • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society, pages 41–68 )
• Supply Chain Standards Manual (available in 11 languages)
• Supply Chain Standards (available in 18 languages)
UN Guiding Principles (UNGP) Reporting Framework
Section Indicator/Question References and Links
Stakeholder Engagement C2 W hat is the company’s approach to engagement with stakeholders • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
in relation to each salient human rights issue? • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society (Human Rights, pages 41–45 ; Supply Chain, pages 61–68 ); Partnerships, page 79 )
• Global Human Rights Principles
C2.1 H ow does the company identify which stakeholders to engage with • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
in relation to each salient issue, and when and how to do so? • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society (Human Rights, pages 41–45; Supply Chain, pages 61–68 ); Partnerships, page 79 )
C2.2 D uring the reporting period, which stakeholders has the company • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
engaged with regarding each salient issue, and why? • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society (Supply Chain, pages 61–68 ); Partnerships, page 79 );
C2.3 D uring the reporting period, how have the views of stakeholders • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
influenced the company’s understanding of each salient issue and/ • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society (Human Rights, pages 41–45 ; Supply Chain, pages 61–68 ); Partnerships, page 79 )
or its approach to addressing it?
Assessing Impacts C3 H ow does the company identify any changes in the nature of each • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
salient human rights issue over time? • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society (Human Rights, pages 41–45 ; Supply Chain, pages 61–68 ))
C3.1 D uring the reporting period, were there any notable trends or • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
patterns in impacts related to a salient issue, and if so, what • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society, pages 46–68 )
were they?
C3.2 D uring the reporting period, did any severe impacts occur that were • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
related to a salient issue and, if so, what were they? • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society, pages 46–68 )
UN Guiding Principles (UNGP) Reporting Framework
Section Indicator/Question References and Links
Integrating Findings and Taking Action C4 H ow does the company integrate its findings about each salient • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
human rights issue into its decision-making process and actions? • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society, pages 41–68 )
• Corporate Governance Documents and Charters
• Global Human Rights Principles
• Supply Chain Standards Manual
C4.1 H ow are those parts of the company whose decisions and actions • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
can affect the management of salient issues, involved in finding and • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society (Human Rights, pages 41–45 ))
implementing solutions? • Amazon France Logistique S.A.S. Duty of Vigilance Plan 2021
C4.2 W hen tensions arise between the prevention or mitigation of • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
impacts related to a salient issue and other business objectives, how • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society (Supply Chain, pages 61–68 ))
are these tensions addressed? • Corporate Governance Documents and Charters
• Global Human Rights Principles
• Supply Chain Standards Manual
C4.3 D uring the reporting period, what actions has the company taken to • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
prevent or mitigate potential impacts related to each salient issue? • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society, pages 41–68 ; Partnerships, page 79 )
Tracking Performance C5 H ow does the company know if its efforts to address each salient • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
human rights issue are effective in practice? • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society (Supply Chain, pages 61–68 ))
C5.1 W hat specific examples from the reporting period illustrate if each • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
salient issue is being managed effectively? • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society (Supply Chain, pages 61–68 ))
UN Guiding Principles (UNGP) Reporting Framework
Section Indicator/Question References and Links
Remediation C6 H ow does the company enable effective remedy if people are • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
harmed by its actions or decisions in relation to the salient human • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society, pages 46–68 ; Partnerships, page 79 )
rights issues? • Amazon France Logistique S.A.S. Duty of Vigilance Plan 2021
• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
• Global Human Rights Principles
• Supply Chain Standards
C6.1 T hrough what means can the company receive complaints or • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
concerns related to each salient issue? • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society, pages 46–68 )
• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
• Global Human Rights Principles (See Employee communication)
• Supply Chain Standards
C6.2 H ow does the company know if people feel able and empowered to • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society, pages 46–68 )
raise complaints or concerns?
C6.3 H ow does the company process complaints and assess the • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
effectiveness of outcomes? • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society, pages 41–68 ; Partnerships, page 79 )
• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
C6.4 D uring the reporting period, what were the trends and patterns • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
in complaints or concerns and their outcomes regarding each • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society, pages 46–68 )
salient issue?
C6.5 D uring the reporting period, did the company provide or enable • 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
remedy for any actual impacts related to a salient issue and, if so, • 2021 Sustainability Report (See Society (Supply Chain, pages 61–68 ))
what are typical or significant examples?
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Our Approach Governance Metrics and Targets Climate-related Risks
and Opportunities
We aim to consistently deliver progress on our climate- We have an established governance framework to help We have a comprehensive understanding of the carbon
related performance, whether in our own operations or by ensure that risks associated with climate change are emissions across our business and have done extensive We are committed to minimizing our carbon emissions
enabling meaningful change beyond our business. We take a considered at the most senior levels of our business. analysis to develop science-based targets, strategies, and by optimizing our transportation network and investing
science-based, customer-centric approach to climate, using a metrics to reduce them. Learn more about the science in electric vehicles; improving product packaging to drive
structured lifecycle assessment (LCA) model to measure and • Board Oversight: The Nominating and Corporate and technology behind our carbon footprint in our efficiency in the distribution of products; implementing
map environmental hotspots across our value chain. Governance Committee of Amazon’s Board of Directors Carbon Methodology . energy efficiency measures in our operations; using
oversees environmental, sustainability, and corporate social renewable energy to run our business; and supporting
Our approach to quantifying our carbon footprint reflects responsibility practices, and our corporate governance Our carbon footprint , including Scope 1, Scope 2, and global reforestation. We have joined numerous industry
the complexity of our business. Our team of researchers policies and initiatives. The committee also oversees our Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, is available on page 97. partnerships including Ceres, American Council on
and scientists has combined cutting-edge LCA science and progress on The Climate Pledge and risks related to our Renewable Energy, Advanced Energy Buyers Group, Carbon
AWS technology to develop a robust software solution operations, supply chain, and customer engagement. Amazon co-founded The Climate Pledge—a commitment Leadership Forum, We Mean Business Coalition, First Movers
that processes billions of operational and financial records to be net-zero carbon across our business by 2040. We have Coalition, and Clean Energy Buyers Alliance to express
from Amazon’s operations across the world to calculate our • Management Oversight: Amazon’s Worldwide a goal to deliver 50% of Amazon shipments with net-zero support for action on climate change and to accelerate
carbon footprint. The software estimates carbon emissions Sustainability team, along with dedicated teams across carbon by 2030. We are also on a path to powering our the transition to a low-carbon economy.
for all activities within our system boundary using a dollar- the company, are working to make operational changes operations with 100% renewable energy by 2025—five
based environmental assessment model, then enhances the that reduce or eliminate carbon in our business. Our years ahead of our original target of 2030. See our public
accuracy of carbon-intensive activities with detailed, process- companywide carbon accounting model provides specific methodology for more on our approach.
based LCA models. operational metrics to business teams on their emissions
and allows them to track progress on decarbonization. As part of our commitment to The Climate Pledge, we are
We categorize climate risks and opportunities by considering We also hold quarterly business reviews with Amazon proud to have joined the Science Based Targets initiative
customer and stakeholder expectations, regulations, leadership teams to track our progress. (SBTi) and are working toward setting science-based targets.
business risks, industry best practices, and emerging trends. This reaffirms our commitment to reduce carbon emissions
We embed a variety of mechanisms across our business Learn more about our corporate governance . in line with our ongoing science-based approach to tackle
operations to address sustainability issues, including climate- climate change.
related risks, and we integrate sustainability practices into
our everyday operations through goal-setting, metrics, and
leadership reviews.
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Climate-related Risks:
We have identified the following climate-related risks based on TCFD risk types and classifications. Physical risks are classified as either: 1) Acute (extreme weather events) or 2) Chronic (changing weather
patterns and rising mean temperature and sea levels). Transition risks are classified as one or more of the following: 1) Policy and Legal; 2) Technology; 3) Market; and 4) Reputation.
Risk Type Description Classification
Physical Increasing risk of flood or damages due to climate-related events could increase our physical and operational risks and the cost to insure our buildings. Repeated damage due to Acute
flooding could result in an inability to insure existing buildings.
Weather-related events such as hurricanes could cause asset damage to our buildings, prevent deliveries to customers, and negatively impact sales. Acute
Extreme and prolonged weather events such as droughts could impact water availability for data center operations. Acute
Weather-related events could impact our ability to access raw materials and deliver final products. Acute
A warming climate could increase thermal stress and outdoor associate exposure to criteria air pollutants. These stresses could negatively impact the health of our employees, Chronic
close sites, and delay customer deliveries.
As temperatures increase and water availability decreases, we could experience rising costs for data center cooling. Chronic
Transition Increasing regulations and evolving public preference may require a faster transition to a low-carbon economy, which could increase operating costs and/or reduce demands for Policy and Legal; Market; Reputation
some products and services.
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Climate-related Opportunities:
We have identified the following climate-related opportunities based on TCFD classifications. Opportunities are classified as one or more of the following: 1) Resource Efficiency; 2) Energy Source;
3) Products and Services; 4) Markets; and 5) Resilience.
Description Classification
The Climate Pledge Markets; Products and Services
Amazon became the first company to sign The Climate Pledge after co-founding the initiative with Global Optimism in 2019. Since then, more than 300 businesses and organizations have signed the Pledge. Signatories commit to reaching
net-zero carbon emissions by 2040 and play a critical role in stimulating investment in the development of low-carbon products and services. Collectively, signatories generate over $3.5 trillion in global annual revenues and have more
than 8 million employees across 51 industries in 29 countries.
Read more about The Climate Pledge on pages 14–15.
The Climate Pledge Fund Resource Efficiency; Energy Source;
The Climate Pledge Fund is a $2 billion venture investment program supporting the development of sustainable technologies and services that will enable Amazon to meet our net-zero carbon goal. As of the end of 2021, Amazon had Products and Services
invested in 13 companies across multiple industry sectors since launching this fund in 2020.
Read more about our investments through The Climate Pledge Fund on pages 16–17.
Nature-Based Solutions Resilience; Resource Efficiency
Amazon invests in nature-based solutions to mitigate carbon emissions outside of our value chain and supplement the carbon-reduction efforts we are driving across our operations. In 2019, we created the Right Now Climate Fund, a
$100 million fund for nature-based solutions to restore and conserve forests, wetlands, and grasslands around the world.
In 2021, Amazon helped to create the Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest finance (LEAF) Coalition, a global initiative of governments and leading companies that has already mobilized $1 billion to protect the world’s tropical
rainforests. We also partnered with The Nature Conservancy to launch the Agroforestry and Restoration Accelerator.
Read more about our work to support nature-based solutions on pages 18–19.
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Description Classification
Renewable Energy Energy Source; Resilience
Amazon is on a path to powering our operations with 100% renewable energy by 2025—five years ahead of our original target of 2030. See our public methodology for more on our approach.. With 274 renewable energy projects
announced as of the end of 2021, Amazon is the world’s largest corporate purchaser of renewable energy. In 2021, we reached 85% renewable energy across our business, with more than 12 gigawatts of renewable energy production capacity
across our global portfolio. Once these projects are fully operational, they are expected to deliver up to 33,700 gigawatt-hours of energy annually—the electricity output equivalent to powering more than 3 million U.S. homes for one year.
In 2021, we expanded our renewable energy footprint into new geographies, and by the end of the year, announced renewable energy projects across 18 countries. Our first solar projects in South Africa and the United Arab Emirates came
online and we announced new projects in locations including Singapore, Japan, Australia, and China. Our projects in South Africa and Japan are the first corporate-backed, utility-scale solar farms in these countries.
Read more about our investments in renewable energy on pages 20–21.
Our Buildings Resource Efficiency; Energy Source;
Amazon is working to reduce the carbon emissions associated with our buildings, from the carbon embodied in construction materials to the operational emissions from powering our activities. We leverage industry best practices and Resilience
emerging technologies in facility design and operation to drive reductions across carbon, energy, water, and waste.
In 2021, we unveiled our latest plans for sustainable design enhancements at PenPlace , the second phase of our HQ2 development in Virginia. From the start, sustainability has been a key element of our HQ2 campus, with commitments
to use 100% renewable energy, reduce embodied carbon from construction, and achieve Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum certification, the highest sustainability certification for a development issued by the
U.S. Green Building Council. In early 2022, our Amazon Fresh location in Seattle, Washington, became the world’s first grocery store to pursue Zero Carbon Certification from the International Living Future Institute.
Read more about how we incorporate sustainability into our buildings on pages 22–23.
Transportation Resource Efficiency; Energy Source
Decarbonizing our transportation network is a key part of meeting The Climate Pledge by 2040 and making 50% of shipments net-zero carbon by 2030, which is why we are actively transforming our fleet network and operations. We are
deploying zero-emission vehicles, using low-carbon fuels, investing in emerging technologies, and collaborating with others to accelerate cross-sector innovation.
In 2019, we ordered 100,000 custom electric delivery vehicles from Rivian and thousands more from global manufacturers such as Stellantis and Mahindra Electric. In 2021, more than 100 million packages were delivered to customers’
doorsteps across Europe with a fleet of over 3,000 electric delivery vans and other zero-emission vehicles. Also in 2021, more than half a million packages were delivered to customers’ doorsteps in North America with electric vehicles (EVs).
We also started deploying battery EV trucks across our heavy commercial trucking fleets and began switching to vehicles that use alternative fuel sources, like compressed natural gas trucks. Micromobility technologies, such as cargo bikes
and walkers, are used to deliver packages in urban settings. In 2021, we helped launch Cargo Owners for Zero Emission Vessels and became a founding private sector member of the First Movers Coalition to lead decarbonization of the
maritime shipping industry.
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Description Classification
Waste and Recycling Resource Efficiency; Products
Amazon is working to send less material to landfills and more back into the circular economy loop by developing waste-prevention and -reuse programs within our own operations and for our customers. Through Amazon Second Chance, and Services
we offer customers access to a range of services to recycle, repair, or trade in their items, as well as shop for like-new and refurbished products. At our global fulfillment centers, we use software to identify and sort eligible items that are fit
for donation. We partner with local community organizations to collect these items from Amazon facilities and distribute them to people in need. Since 2019, Amazon has contributed more than 100 million products to our global charity
partners in North America, Europe, Australia, and Japan.
We work with third-party recycling haulers to remove excess corrugated board from our facilities for off-site recycling. Many of these haulers also supply Amazon with the packaging materials that we use for customer shipments,
converting waste material recovered from Amazon operations into new, recycled packaging. For plastic film, which is not commonly accepted through municipal recycling programs, we have developed on-site recycling systems that enable
us to convert plastic film into bags made of 100% recycled material.
We incorporate recycled plastics, fabrics, and metals into many new Amazon devices, giving new life to materials that could have otherwise ended up in waste streams. In 2021, we launched several Echo, Fire TV, Fire Tablet, Kindle, and
Smart Home devices and accessories that include up to 60% recycled molded plastic, up to 100% recycled fabrics, up to 100% recycled aluminum, and up to 70% recycled magnesium, depending on the product.
Read more about how we are reducing waste and improving recycling on pages 26–27.
Packaging Resource Efficiency; Products
We work to reinvent and simplify our sustainable packaging options using a science-based approach that combines lab testing, machine learning, materials science, and manufacturing partnerships to scale sustainable change across the and Services
packaging supply chain. Frustration-Free Packaging (FFP) is our flagship program to offer more-sustainable packaging that is easy to open, fully recyclable, and capable of shipping without additional packaging protection. By the end of
2021, more than 2 million products qualified under our FFP programs. Since 2015, we have reduced per-shipment packaging weight by 38% and eliminated over 1.5 million tons of packaging.
Read more about how we are improving our packaging on pages 28–29.
Product Sustainability Resource Efficiency; Products
As part of our mission to be Earth’s most customer-centric company, we are giving customers access to products that are more sustainable. This includes both our Amazon-branded products and the third-party items we offer that feature and Services
sustainability certifications through our Climate Pledge Friendly program. Since we launched Climate Pledge Friendly in 2020, the number of products included in the program has grown from 75,000 to more than 250,000. In 2021, more
than 370 million Climate Pledge Friendly units were shipped to Amazon customers, and we welcomed 20 new third-party sustainability certifications to the program. In early 2022, we launched Amazon Aware, a new line of everyday
essential items, all with third-party certifications featured in our Climate Pledge Friendly program.
In addition to offering more-sustainable choices, we want our Amazon Private Brands to support responsible supply chains and contribute to growing circular economies. We are working to enhance the certification and traceability of key
raw materials and ingredients in our consumable products. We participate in industry partnerships and working groups that drive greater adoption of sustainable and responsible practices. Additionally, we are increasing the amount of
recycled fiber used in many of our Amazon Private Brands apparel products.
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Description Classification
Sustainability in the Cloud Resource Efficiency; Products
As the world’s most comprehensive and broadly adopted cloud offering, we are designing data centers that provide the efficient, resilient service our customers expect while minimizing our environmental footprint—and theirs. We focus on and Services
efficiency across all aspects of our infrastructure, from the design of our data centers and hardware to modeling the performance of our operations for continual efficiency enhancements. We also offer a customer carbon footprint tool that
uses simple visualizations to show customers their historical carbon emissions, evaluate related trends as their use of AWS evolves, estimate emissions avoided through AWS compared with on-premises data centers, and review forecasted
emissions based on their current use.
Read more about AWS on pages 35–38.
Water Stewardship Resource Efficiency
Our holistic approach to water stewardship minimizes both energy and water consumption in our data center operations and guides our water use strategy for each AWS Region. This starts with evaluating climate patterns, local water
management and availability, and opportunities to avoid using potable water sources whenever possible. We are committed to conserving and reusing water, both in our on-site operations and by working with private and public entities to
support water availability in communities where we operate data centers.
Read more about our approach to water stewardship on page 37.
Amazon Sustainability Data Initiative (ASDI) Products and Services
ASDI helps researchers, scientists, and innovators around the world advance their work on sustainability-related research. The program provides publicly available, free access to important scientific data that can otherwise be hard for
researchers to access or analyze. ASDI works with scientific organizations like the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, NASA, the UK Met Office, and the Queensland government to identify, host, and deploy key datasets
on the AWS Cloud, including weather observations, weather forecasts, climate projection data, satellite imagery, hydrological data, air quality data, and ocean forecast data.
Read more about ASDI on page 38.
UN Sustainable Development Goals
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a collection of 17 global goals set by the UN General Assembly to provide a shared blueprint for peace and prosperity for people and the planet, now
and into the future. At Amazon, there are multiple ways our sustainability work aligns with these global goals. The following shows how our programs correspond to the UN SDGs.
Buildings and Transportation Product Sustainability Supply Chain Communities
Renewable Energy
Employee Benefits
Waste and Packaging
Diversity, Equity,
and Inclusion
Partnerships
Sustainability in
the Cloud
Carbon Footprint Data
Amazon’s Enterprisewide Carbon Footprint, 2019–2021
Carbon Intensity 2019 2020 2021 YOY%
Carbon Intensity (grams of CO₂e per $ of GMS) 122.8 102.7 100.8 -1.9%
Emissions Category (mmt CO₂e) 2019 2020 2021 YOY%
Emissions from Direct Operations (Scope 1) 5.76 9.62 12.11 26%
Fossil fuels 5.57 9.37 11.89 27%
Refrigerants 0.19 0.25 0.22 -12%
Emissions from Purchased Electricity (Scope 2) 5.50 5.27 4.07 -23%
Emissions from Indirect Sources (Scope 3) 39.91 45.75 55.36 21%
Corporate purchases and Amazon-branded product emissions (e.g., operating
expenses, business travel, and Amazon-branded product manufacturing, use
phase, and end-of-life) 15.41 16.70 19.09 14%
Capital goods (e.g., building construction, servers and other hardware,
equipment, vehicles) 8.01 10.52 15.37 46%
Other indirect emissions (e.g., third-party transportation, packaging, upstream
energy-related) 12.44 15.77 18.00 14%
Lifecycle emissions from customer trips to Amazon’s physical stores 4.05 2.77 2.91 5%
Amazon’s Total Footprint 51.17 60.64 71.54 18%
Supplier Assessments
High- and Medium-Level Findings by Subcategory, 2019–2021
(% of all assessment findings)
2019 2020 2021
Labor
Freedom of Association <1% <1% <1%
Freely Chosen Employment 3.2% 8% 4.4%
Humane Treatment <1% 1.4% <1%
Nondiscrimination <1% 1% <1%
Subcontractor and Next-Tier Supplier Responsibility <1% <1% <1%
Wages and Benefits 40.7% 47% 40.6%
Worker Grievance/Complaint Mechanism <1% <1% <1%
Working Hours 7.9% 5.7% 5.0%
Young Workers <1% <1% <1%
Ethical Behavior
Business Integrity 2.3% 2.9% 1.7%
Transparency 2.9% 1.7% 2.7%
Environment
Hazardous Substances <1% <1% <1%
Pollution Management and Prevention <1% 3% <1%
Health and Safety
Emergency Preparedness and Response 10.5% 12.9% 7.8%
Industrial Hygiene 9.5% 16.2% 13.6%
Machine Safeguarding <1% <1% <1%
Sanitation, Dormitory, and Canteen 2.3% 1.8% 1.3%
Our Workforce Data
Field and Customer Support (Level 1–Level 3)
Global U.S. U.S. Race/Ethnicity
47.7% Women 52.3% Men 50.6% Women 49.4% Men 22.6% Latinx 33.5% Black 8.6% Asian 29.9% White
2019 2019 2019
1.6% Native American 3.9% Multiracial
48.5% Women 51.5% Men 50.5% Women 49.5% Men 26.4% Latinx 31.0% Black 8.7% Asian 28.5% White
2020 2020 2020
1.7% Native American 3.7% Multiracial
48.3% Women 51.7% Men 50.3% Women 49.7% Men 27.2% Latinx 32.9% Black 8.2% Asian 26.7% White
2021 2021 22002211
1.7% Native American 3.3% Multiracial
Corporate Employees (Level 4–Level 7)
Global U.S. U.S. Race/Ethnicity
30.1% Women 69.9% Men 30.0% Women 70.0% Men 36.2% Asian 48.4% White
2019 2019 2019
0.5% Native American 2.9% Multiracial 6.6% Latinx 5.4% Black
31.4% Women 68.6% Men 31.4% Women 68.6% Men 34.8% Asian 47.0% White
2020 2020 2020
0.5% Native American 3.0% Multiracial 7.5% Latinx 7.2% Black
32.8% Women 67.2% Men 32.7% Women 67.3% Men 34.4% Asian 44.6% White
2021 2021 22002211
0.6% Native American 3.2% Multiracial 8.7% Latinx 8.5% Black
Senior Leaders (Level 8+)
Global U.S. U.S. Race/Ethnicity
79.6% Men 78.9% Men 19.8% Asian 73.9% White
2019 2019 2019
20.4% Women 21.1% Women 0.1% Native American 1.4% Multiracial 2.9% Latinx 1.9% Black
77.9% Men 77.2% Men 20.0% Asian 70.7% White
2020 2020 2020
21.2% Women 22.8% Women 0.2% Native American 1.4% Multiracial 3.9% Latinx 3.8% Black
Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements
The information and opinions contained in this report are This report includes forward-looking statements within the
provided as of the date of this report and are subject to meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
change without notice. Amazon does not undertake to 1995. All statements other than statements of historical
update or revise any such statements. This report represents or current facts, including statements regarding our plans,
current Amazon policy and intent and is not intended to initiatives, projections, goals, commitments, expectations,
create legal rights or obligations. This report may contain or or prospects, are forward-looking. We use words such as
incorporate by reference public information not separately aim, believe, commit, drive, estimate, ensure, expect, goal,
reviewed, approved, or endorsed by Amazon, and no intend, may, mission, plan, project, seek, strategy, strive,
representation, warranty, or undertaking is made by Amazon target, and will or similar expressions to identify forward-
as to the accuracy, reasonableness, or completeness of such looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect
information. Inclusion of information in this report is not management’s current expectations and inherently involve
an indication that the subject or information is material to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially
Amazon’s business or operating results. This report was due to a variety of factors, including assumptions not being
originally drafted in English and then translated into other realized, scientific or technological developments, evolving
languages. The English version is the authoritative version. sustainability strategies, changes in carbon markets, evolving
government regulations, our expansion into new products,
services, technologies, and geographic regions, or other
changes in circumstances, as well as the factors set forth in
the “Risk Factors” section of Amazon’s most recent Annual
Report on Form 10-K and subsequent filings. The standards
of measurement and performance contained in the report
are developing and based on assumptions, and no assurance
can be given that any plan, initiative, projection, goal,
commitment, expectation, or prospect set forth in this report
can or will be achieved.