AN AGE OF
OPPORTUNIT Y
Special Conversation
Medical Scientist / Director of the Center
for iPS Cell Research and Application (CiRA),
Kyoto University / Representative Director
of the CiRA Foundation
Shinya Yamanaka
Chairman, President and CEO
Fast Retailing Co., Ltd.
Tadashi Yanai
03 FAST RETAILING WAY
04 Sustainability Statement
05 Introduction
06 [Special Conversation]
AN AGE OF OPPORTUNITY
14 LifeWear: A New Industry
16 The Positive Power of LifeWear
18 Sustainability Starts with Society
20 Overcoming COVID-19 Together
22 LifeWear Is for Everybody
24 Ten Years with Refugees
26 Worker Wellbeing as a Priority
To create truly great clothing with new and unique value,
30 Humanity + Technology
and to enable people all over the world to experience the joy,
32 Generation Next, Finding a Way
happiness and satisfaction of wearing such great clothes.
34 Giving Back to the World
36 Corporate Governance To enrich people’s lives through our unique corporate activities,
38 Corporate Information and to seek to grow and develop our company in unity with society.
Sustainability Statement Introduction
Fast Retailing manages eight apparel brands worldwide. Our mission is to deliver clothing that
Unlocking enriches the lives of all our customers around the world. For over 20 years, we have worked on
sustainability activities with an aim to change the world for the better through our business.
As the world continues working to overcome difficulties caused by COVID-19, we believe the
the predicament also presents opportunity. We are committed to helping the world bounce back and
build a better future, leveraging the great power of creativity to transcend borders and industries.
In Sustainability Report 2022, we present some of our current key initiatives, as well as details of
our future action plans and commitments.
Power
of
Clothing
We believe we can turn the power of clothing Six Material Issues
into a force for good. By designing, making and
We have identified six issues that are
selling good clothing, we can make the world
material to our sustainability efforts. We have
a better place. Good clothing means simple clothing,
announced a commitment and targets for each
high in quality, and built to last. It’s clothing that
issue and are implementing them as part of our
enriches the lives of people who wear it by giving
business strategy.
them comfort, protection and pleasure. It is produced
in a way that is harmonious with nature, without
1. Create New Value through Products
excessive burden on the environment.
and Services
Good clothing is made by people of diverse
2. Respect Human Rights in Our Supply Chain
backgrounds working with energy and enthusiasm,
3. Respect the Environment
under conditions where their health, safety and
4. Strengthen Communities
human rights are respected and upheld. And we
5. Support Employee Fulfillment
will extend this same spirit to our customers and all
6. Corporate Governance
our stakeholders, working with them to aspire to a
better society where we all thrive. This is our promise:
to always work toward a better, more
sustainable society.
A N AG EE O F
O P PO R T U N I T Y
Medical Scientist / Director of the Center for iPS Cell Research
and Application (CiRA), Kyoto University /
Representative Director of the CiRA Foundation
Shinya Yamanaka
Chairman, President and CEO
Fast Retailing Co., Ltd.
Tadashi Yanai
Creativity of individuals
and the private sector; a key to shaping
the future for the next generation
How did the world of science change during the COVID-19 pandemic?
Professor Shinya Yamanaka, who won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or
Medicine, has been conducting research at Kyoto University, Japan,
and Gladstone Institutes, California, traveling back and forth
between the countries while navigating travel restrictions.
Through his research, Professor Yamanaka is keeping a close eye
on the frontline and the future.
Below is an edited version of discussions between Professor Yamanaka
and Tadashi Yanai, Chairman, President and CEO of Fast Retailing.
These discussions took place during a period of quarantine
for Professor Yamanaka after returning to Japan,
and later during an in-person meeting in Tokyo.
ITASREVNOC
YTINUTROPPO
FO
EGA
NA
2202
TROPER
YTILIBANIATSUS
GNILIATER
TSA
What the pandemic has revealed
Yanai You have been actively communicating on the COVID-19 pandemic since
it started.
Yamanaka Thank you. The question of how science can contribute to the world
has always been on my mind while doing iPS cell research. However, most
scientists, including myself, could not predict that COVID-19 would have such
an impact on the world. The situation made me reflect as a scientist. Ever since,
I felt I must continue to communicate to the public, even if the topic is beyond
my field of expertise.
Yanai It is also very important for companies to communicate.The pandemic has
closed borders, isolated families and individuals, and brought everything to a
halt. It has made us think about our responsibilities and how we should
communicate when our actions are restricted. Now the world is so closely
connected because of globalization. It has made me keenly aware of how
serious the situation would be if these connections were lost. In other words,
the pandemic has caused two crises.
Yamanaka Even if society could overcome an infectious disease by cutting off
connections, the social structure and economic activities would not be
sustainable. It is very difficult to balance these two.
Yanai It is not only scientists who failed to predict the future, but also politicians
and economists, as well. We should not just close doors but find ways to open
them wisely in emergency situations. We must work together all over the world
to spread and apply our knowledge globally. Otherwise, life will stop like cells not only from virus researchers but also from people in different fields, utilizing
without blood flow. their own knowledge and specialties. This was particularly clear in the U.S. It
Yamanaka The field of science has become more active. The scientific world is reminded me how that country is the driving force of global research
usually driven by a principle of fierce competition. However, many of us decided innovations. The U.S. was at the forefront of efforts to translate research
to switch from competition to cooperation early on. There were a lot of reactions findings into reality. At the same time, it suffered from having the highest number
of infected people and deaths in the world. I saw two sides of the country.
Yanai A certain period of quarantine is required when we return to Japan. It can
be stressful to travel back and forth between Japan and the U.S., but you have
visited the U.S. frequently.
Yamanaka It is because my research is based in Kyoto and San Francisco. The
reason I tolerate the strict travel regulations is because in the U.S., I can access
cutting edge research and feel the enthusiasm of the researchers directly.
There are things that cannot be conveyed precisely on the Internet.
Yanai When the globalized world is fragmented, we come to realize that there
are tangible things which are indispensable to human beings. These things
cannot be captured by the Internet. That is why we need to monitor the infection
situation and adjust inspection and quarantine systems to facilitate people
crossing borders with greater agility. Otherwise, we will continue to lose the
dynamism created by direct interactions.
Yamanaka 2020 was like fighting without protective gear. However, it is a more
reassuring situation now, because we have preventive measures, including
wearing masks, the protection of vaccines and more sophisticated treatment
methods even if we do get infected. But more harmful variants may still emerge.
It is paramount to prepare ourselves thoroughly, especially when the number of
infected people decreases.
This conversation was first
Yanai When social and economic conditions improve, we must take a good look
held online on October 12,
2021, and then at the Fast at what is going on from a global perspective rather than just rejoicing in the
Retailing Ariake Office on
ITASREVNOC
YTINUTROPPO
FO
EGA
NA
2202
TROPER
YTILIBANIATSUS
GNILIATER
TSA
countries and regions that are in difficult situations. Otherwise, the entire world the government is demanding short-term results from research and academia
will not be able to coexist and prosper together. Or more precisely, I believe that too much. Basic research may not produce results in five or 10 years. Trial and
it is nothing but an illusion that one’s own country can recover single-handedly. error are the key to great discoveries. The single-year accounting system and
It is clearer than ever that the entire world is connected at every corner, as the budget principle are also causing problems.
proven by the pandemic. Yamanaka Research funding is divided into periods of one year at the shortest
and five years at the longest. Faculty members are also given terms. Many
The power of individuals and the private sector young members are only given terms of five years. It is becoming impossible for
them to conduct research where they find something that other researchers do
Yanai Another thing that should be emphasized is the power of individuals and not notice and continue to observe it under a microscope for more than a
the private sector. They played a vital role. The acceleration of the vaccination decade. This is exactly what the research by Professor Yoshinori Ohsumi (Nobel
in Japan was due in large part to the private sector. Laureate in Physiology or Medicine for his research on autophagy) was like.
Yamanaka I agree. It was so fast that the vaccines were in short supply at one About a quarter century ago, the salaries for university faculty were not that
point. Anyone could estimate that 1 million shots per day were necessary for high, but enough for them to eat, and they could do their research without
people in Japan before the fall and winter when the infection situation would worrying about tomorrow. However, the basic research at Japanese universities
worsen. I made an announcement declaring this number as a goal. The a quarter century ago was ranked around the third or fourth highest in the world.
government also set a goal of 1 million shots per day, set up large-scale Now it is falling lower and lower. Education was called a “100-year plan” in this
vaccination sites and allowed vaccinations in the workplace. The government country. We need to think about its fundamentals from now on.
supplied the vaccine, but the system and the logistics were entrusted to local Yanai There is no retirement age in the U.S. as long as you have tenure.
governments and private sectors. We changed the system as we went along. Professor Syukuro Manabe, Nobel Laureate in Physics, is a senior
These efforts from both parties paid off. If the government had made all the meteorologist in atmospheric and oceanic sciences at Princeton University at
decisions without room for adjustments, we would never have achieved 1 million the age of 90. This is not because he is protected by the system, but probably
shots per day. because his research and achievements are evaluated as steady and reliable.
Yanai When we need to achieve something in a short period of time, decisions Yamanaka In the U.S., when a researcher is hired with tenure, his or her age
based on “uniformity” or “precedent” will be nothing but an obstacle. Groups or does not matter. Or rather, we cannot ask that. However, even if you have
societies that put brakes on ideas and suggestions by individuals may make
fewer mistakes, but they will not produce new results. This means there will be
no future for them. It is a matter of the future of the country whether individuals
and the private sector are in an environment where they can think freely.
Yamanaka Science has also shown unprecedented development. It was
inconceivable for vaccines to be ready and available within a year. They were
available in such a short period of time because of efforts by startups in Europe
and the United States. They already had good skills to handle the mRNA they
were experimenting with clinically for almost 10 years. Their experiments failed
over and over again, but they did not give up. I think there is little chance in
Japan that investments will not be cut off by investors when startups fail
repeatedly.
Yanai Investors need to take measure of the nature of startups; are they just
trying to make money, or do they aspire to contribute to the world from a
long-term perspective, such as overcoming disease or developing technologies
that reduce CO2? Also, it is important for startups to have clear purposes and
plans and to communicate their visions and aspirations in a way that is easy for
investors to understand.
Yamanaka You are right. It is natural for investors to expect financial returns
from their investments. At the same time, the attitude toward investments has
been changing in recent years. More and more investors are not looking for
short-term results but expect to make a big return on their investment for the
future of society, including the generations of their children and grandchildren.
Yanai It also depends on whether you have a sense of crisis about the global
environment. I think there is still a mindset in Japan that the government should
take care of these major problems. Nothing will change unless individuals and
ITASREVNOC
YTINUTROPPO
FO
EGA
NA
2202
TROPER
YTILIBANIATSUS
GNILIATER
TSA
tenure, even if you have won the Nobel Prize, your salary will be lower and Yamanaka Exactly. In the field of biology, there are more and more
lower and your laboratory will become smaller and smaller if you don’t produce situations where the ability to quickly analyze and apply big data is
remarkable results for a long time. The Gladstone Institutes, where I am crucial. In such cases, it is rather difficult for conventional biological
conducting my research activities, is operating based on the legacy of Mr. researchers to introduce computers to their research. On the other
Gladstone, a successful real estate entrepreneur. It maintains and increases his hand, more people with computer skills start their research in biology
legacy by investment while also receiving research funding from the and achieve results with computer analysis.
government. The Institutes also solicit donations, so they have multiple financial Yanai Computers are also essential for biotechnology. In order to utilize
pillars. The largest source of income for national universities in Japan is grants big data, researchers will need cross-border collaboration with
from the government. Shortly after the Meiji Restoration, Yukichi Fukuzawa said research institutions rather than working alone.
that there was no academic independence without financial independence. We Yamanaka It is impossible to decipher human genes without computers.
are now in an era where researchers need to make efforts to obtain funding in For example, if you want to know why people have different heights by
order to sustain and develop their research. analyzing their genes, you will not get a conclusion by examining 1,000
Shinya Yamanaka
of them. You may have to examine hundreds of thousands or millions of
Professor Yamanaka is a leading
The future of research and the next generation Japanese scientist who works to people to find out. It is impossible to find so many research subjects in Japan.
promote the importance of scientific
research. Awarded the Nobel Prize in My field, medical biology, is also entering an era of collaboration with
Yanai Professor Manabe moved to the U.S. in the 1950s for his research in Physiology or Medicine in 2012 for his researchers in mathematics, physics and computers.
success creating iPS cells from skin
geophysics and meteorology. He could do his research using the latest IBM cells, Professor Yamanaka is a pioneer Yanai That is why we need to think about which human abilities have an edge
in new research fields, and has
computers there. I heard that the performance of computers and salaries for over computers. I believe that the liberal arts and humanities will be more
received many Japanese and
researchers in the U.S. were more than 20 times higher than in Japan at that international scientific awards. important. Ultimately, it will be about how aspects like truth, goodness, beauty
Currently focused on the medical
time. Meteorology depends on complex factors and conditions affecting each and basic human abilities such as integrity and love will be connected to
application of iPS cells, he is the
other, making it impossible for a human brain to follow on its own. Even though director of the Center for iPS Cell science. Computers might take over the human world otherwise. In terms of
Research and Application (CiRA) and
it was Professor Manabe’s brain that came up with the ideas, the environment the representative director of the CiRA sustainability, I believe that it is universal human integrity that can drive it as
which allowed him to use computers for more than half a century must have Foundation. He is also a member of well. When we provided the official clothing of the Swedish team for the Tokyo
the Gladstone Institutes in the United
played an important role for his success. States, and travels between Japan 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games, their committee wanted three things
and the U.S. to undertake his research.
from the companies providing the uniforms: “quality”, “innovation” and
Since March 15, 2020, Professor
Yamanaka has been working to “sustainability”. The materials and technology can be easily conveyed. In terms
distribute evidence-based information
and advice related to COVID-19. of sustainability, I felt that they were looking at the corporate attitude. We have
(As of January, 2022) been providing clothes with universal designs so that people can wear them
next year and the year after that, not just for one season. It seems that they
appreciated this attitude. We also do not want to make products that will soon
be thrown away. That is a truth you know without asking a computer.
Yamanaka Therapeutic drugs must meet the requirements of quality, but they
also have to be innovative. On top of that, they must be affordable. Therapeutic
drugs are not considered successful unless they are affordable to everyone.
Creating a cure or medicine is not the end of the story. As you said, we always
need to rely on our integrity when we ask ourselves what medical science is.
Yanai Affordability is our principle. Clothes “MADE FOR ALL” means affordable
and sustainable clothes. Sustainable clothes, for us, are those that do not
increase the burden on the natural environment, society and workers, and
which can be worn for a long time. The “ALL” of “MADE FOR ALL” naturally
includes sustainability. We believe that this is the only way for our future. There
is still a lot of work to be done.
Yamanaka There has never been a time with more opportunities for young and
open-minded people than today. We cannot see the future now. This means that
things will definitely change. We cannot create opportunities if we are satisfied
with the current situation and do not want to change.
Yanai It is no good if we just run on the existing rails. We must create our own
future. A bright future will not come if we just wait for it. We will keep on doing
everything we can until our customers truly feel that LifeWear equals
sustainability. I have no doubt that this is our future.
ITASREVNOC
YTINUTROPPO
FO
EGA
NA
Li feWear: A New Industry
In December 2021, Fast Retailing reimagined its LifeWear concept,
committing to a strong vision and action plan that will see LifeWear evolve into a new type of industry.
Turn into new clothes
Recycle
Raw materials procurement Product design Living Collect, Sort
Incorporate opinions
Creating LifeWear Continuously utilizing LifeWear
The session allowed everyone to participate from the same perspective. Koji Yanai, Director of the Board and Group Senior
Executive Officer, shares our vision of how LifeWear can bring in a new business revolution that contributes to establishing a
Production sustainable society, as clothing takes an essential role in our life, along with food and shelter.
Customers
How we'll achieve our vision
Logistics Stores, EC Reuse Turn into new resources Recycle Fast Retailing has established targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by FY 2030, in accordance with
the goals of the Paris Agreement, to reduce environmental impact. These targets have been approved as
science-based targets by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). We also conduct human rights due
diligence, not only in our own business, but also throughout our supply chain so that human rights risks can be
Making our supply chain more sustainable Circulating value on a global scale identified and prevented. In terms of social contribution activities, Fast Retailing is committed to measuring
and disclosing the impact of its community investments based on the Business for Societal Impact (B4SI)
Framework.
Support for communities and contributions to society Respect the diversity of all people Communicate, and involve a lot of people
The past, present and future of LifeWear
LifeWear is clothing designed to make everyone’s life better. It is simple, high-quality, everyday clothing with a
practical sense of beauty, ingenious in detail, thought through with life’s needs in mind, and always evolving.
A model to achieve both sustainability and business growth
“MADE FOR ALL” is the strong commitment we make to all our customers that LifeWear is for everybody. It is
an expression arising through long and deep deliberation, and reminds us regularly that the clothing we make
Fast Retailing’s business is made possible by the foundations of a stable and healthy society. Accordingly, we is ultimately for people who wear it in their lives each day.
aim to make the world a better place through every item of LifeWear we create. The diagram above helps to In 2017, we commenced our Ariake Project–our inspiration to innovate and further increase the value of
illustrate our approach to this goal. The circle on the left shows our commitment to the environment and to LifeWear for customers. Through the Ariake Project, we have acquired new insights for a new business model
workers across our manufacturing, transportation and sales processes, so that our customers may shop with that incorporates workstyle and supply chain reforms to ensure we make, transport, and sell only the type and
full confidence. Meanwhile, the right circle shows how customers can continue wearing our durable LifeWear volume of products our customers truly want, exactly when they need them. Here, we introduce several
ETARTS
YRTSUDNI
WEN
A
:RAEWEFIL
2202
TROPER
YTILIBANIATSUS
GNILIATER
TSA
The Positive Power of LifeWear
Fast Retailing is committed to a business that produces, transports, and sells only what is necessary.
Our whole global team is working to contribute to a more sustainable society
while also maintaining business growth. Here, we introduce new initiatives toward
supply chain reform and post-sales responsibility.
Circulating value on a global scale
Making our supply chain more sustainable
90 20
% %
GHG reduction by FY 2030, carbon neutrality by 2050
Fast Retailing, by FY 2030, will reduce greenhouse gas emissions from its own operations by 90% over FY
2019 levels. In key stages of our manufacturing—raw materials, plus fabric and garment production—the
supply chain of UNIQLO and GU products will target a 20% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. All Fast
Retailing stores and key offices globally will achieve 100% sourcing of renewable electricity. We have also
formulated a reduction plan in cooperation with our supplier factories. In addition, we will increase the RE.UNIQLO recycling box for collecting clothes Second Life Studio for repairing clothes (Germany)
proportion of recycled materials used in our products to approximately 50%.
Respecting human rights in all production processes Promoting a society that does not dispose of clothes
Fast Retailing will continue to strengthen transparency and traceability to raw material level. Fast Retailing believes that we should also take responsibility for what happens to our clothes after they reach
By March 2022, we plan to publish a list of all garment factories we have ongoing dealings with. In addition to the hands of our customers. The LifeWear philosophy of “enriching the lives of all people” is the cornerstone of
audits at garment factories and core fabric mills, we aim to establish traceability across the whole supply building a recycling-oriented society, where people wear their clothes for a long time without feeling uneasy or
chain, from upstream spinning mills to raw material level. This will be achieved through Fast Retailing site recycle them rather than throwing them away.
visits, audits by third-party organizations, and third-party certifications. Meanwhile, we will continue to In 2020, UNIQLO renewed its “All-Product Recycling Initiative” which has been carried out since 2006, under
strengthen our human rights policies as one of our highest priorities, including our partnership with the Fair the new name “RE.UNIQLO,” with the goal of reusing and recycling almost all our products. For this purpose,
Labor Association (FLA) to pursue a living wage for workers in our supply chain. not only do we reuse clothes, we have started to recycle clothes into new ones.
As a first step, we are collecting old down products and progressing with recycled down products. In addition,
we are also recycling our products into materials other than clothes, such as alternative fuel and soundproofing
materials for cars. Moreover, we will continue to evaluate the clothing needs of refugees and people in crisis,
building on our hard work of 15 years to find good uses for our used clothing.
We are currently collecting clothes at all UNIQLO and GU stores, and will consider adding more collection
methods to make it easier for customers to participate in recycling.
Innovating to extend the clothing life cycle
We believe that in order for people to use our clothes for a long time, we need to create a better system that
makes it easy for customers to repair, reuse or donate, while we continue to offer durable clothing. To this end,
Fast Retailing has started collaborating with external partners.
In August 2021, we launched a “Second Life Studio” as a trial at one UNIQLO store in Germany, offering a
clothing repair service in cooperation with an NGO. In the area of recycling clothes and developing new
materials, we are planning to proceed with research and development with Toray Industries, Inc. Beyond the
boundaries of industry, we will continue to search for partner companies that can work with us to develop
ETARTS
YRTSUDNI
WEN
A
:RAEWEFIL
2202
TROPER
YTILIBANIATSUS
GNILIATER
TSA
Sustainability Starts with Society
Fast Retailing’s business is made possible by the foundations of a stable and healthy society.
Accordingly, we believe it is essential to make meaningful social contributions,
to respect diversity and to collaborate with a wide range of stakeholders, including our customers.
In this way, we will continue working to help develop a stable and sustainable society.
Respect the diversity of all people
Clothing for everyone comes from diverse values
Support for communities and contributions to society
Clothing made for everyone is only possible by
10 respecting diverse values. Fast Retailing promotes
diversity and inclusion across its global business,
addressing issues such as gender equality,
billion yen
opportunities for women at work, increased
participation of people with disabilities, and an
understanding of diverse sexual orientations and
gender identities.
We strive to realize a workplace where diversity is
Fill the world with smiles through the Power of Clothing
recognized and valued. We host sessions where
executive officers and employees of various
Fast Retailing works to identify the needs of socially vulnerable people and provide support through our backgrounds can meet and discuss with each other.
products, employees and stores. We invested a value of 3.2 billion yen via social contribution activities in the In 2021, we joined the Valuable 500, an international
2021 fiscal year alone, and provided support to approximately 7.5 million people. initiative to promote the activities of people with
For the past 10 years, we have been promoting our Power of Clothing project. Through this project, we raise disabilities. Currently, the employment rate in Japan
awareness about refugees and other social issues and work to expand the circle of clothing support via of people with disabilities is 4.6%, and approximately Implementing measures to value diversity across our entire
business
initiatives we host with elementary, junior high and high school students throughout Japan. 1,500 employees with disabilities are working in our
Our Grameen UNIQLO social business aims to support employment in Bangladesh and has 16 stores, as of business worldwide.
the end of August 2021. All processes, from product planning to production and sales, are carried out in
Bangladesh, and all profits are reinvested into the business to create a new circular business model. In
addition, we are making efforts in solving problems, such as providing career support for female employees
who have difficulty becoming self-reliant and offering basic education opportunities for employees of our Communicate,
supplier’s factories.
In the fiscal year of 2025, Fast Retailing, the Fast Retailing Foundation, the Yanai Tadashi Foundation, and Mr. and involve a lot of people
Tadashi Yanai himself, will collaborate to implement social contribution activities worth 10 billion yen in a single
fiscal year by expanding their activities, targeting a donation of 10 million items of clothing and will provide
support to 10 million people.
Promote sustainability with ambassadors
We proactively communicate to raise public
awareness and understanding of sustainability to
create opportunities for action—by us and all people.
We disclose corporate activities so customers have
the transparency they need to purchase products
with peace of mind. As part of these efforts, the
popular character Doraemon became UNIQLO’s
global sustainability ambassador in March 2021. In
Doraemon Sustainability Mode, Doraemon appears
in green, rather than the traditional blue, to
symbolize sustainability for the future of the earth.
Doraemon is helping UNIQLO spread the message,
in an easy-to-understand way, that we can all
change the future through the power of clothing.
The Power of Clothing project received the Good Design Social business Grameen UNIQLO (Bangladesh)
Award in 2021 and the Career Education Award of the METI Doraemon Sustainability Mode and Ms. Haruka Ayase (actor)
ETARTS
YRTSUDNI
WEN
A
:RAEWEFIL
2202
TROPER
YTILIBANIATSUS
GNILIATER
TSA
Overcoming COVID-19 Together
Facing the unprecedented crisis of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have supported many people in difficult situations,
while also taking various measures for ourselves, as a company surviving during the pandemic.
As the world moves to a new stage of living with COVID-19, we continue to support those in need.
Chile India Italy Japan
Fast Retailing provides support to vulnerable When COVID-19 cases surged in May 2021, Fast Retailing support is designed to meet local Approximately 1.6 million AIRism masks were
people everywhere. This includes locations Fast Retailing provided oxygen concentrators needs in each region. For example, HEATTECH donated to new first graders at elementary
where we do not operate stores, such as Chile, as emergency support through the non-profit clothing was provided to volunteer groups and schools nationwide in April 2021 as the new
Argentina and Egypt. organization, GiveIndia. homeless people in Europe. school year started.
Supporting society through Delivering what people need, products— always making good clothing for all, based Overcoming COVID-19 together
the power of clothing exactly how they need it upon the voices and needs of our customers.
Clothing is essential for living. To ensure we can
In cooperation with the UNHCR, the UN Refugee As COVID-19 spread quickly across India, we provided Connecting the world continue providing customers with the products and
Agency, Fast Retailing provided support for vulnerable emergency support through two non-profit with continuous support services they need, we are taking COVID-19 seriously.
people, including donations totaling approximately 1 organizations totaling approximately 220 million rupees We have implemented preventive measures in our
million AIRism masks to refugees in five countries in (around U.S. $3 million). This helped ensure we could We have expanded our support during the COVID-19 stores and have conducted workplace vaccination
South America and the Middle East. Our donation deliver exactly what people needed, to the very people Support during COVID-19 crisis to 35 countries and regions, which includes programs for our employees. Even throughout periods
destinations are not limited only to countries where we who needed it; aid such as oxygen concentrators for (35 countries and regions as of August 31, 2021) donations of medical supplies and essential clothing. of restrictions, we have operated both our retail and
operate stores. If the foundations of life and humanity hospitals and meals for low-income earners. In The number of face masks and AIRism masks we online stores without interruption to meet our
General masks 17,743,800
are shaken, global stability and peace are threatened. Indonesia and Vietnam, we contributed to a fund to help donated totaled approximately 22.3 million as of the customers’ needs as much as possible. At the same
As a global company, we want to support the entirety of speed up vaccination. In Japan, we donated AIRism AIRism masks 4,569,464 end of August 2021. By now, many people across the time, we have taken measures for the security and
global society through the power of clothing. Based on masks to new first graders at elementary schools world are vaccinated, and we have made progress safety of employees at supplier factories, such as
Isolation gowns 1,435,000
this philosophy, we have been donating clothing to nationwide so that they could make a habit of dealing with COVID-19. But a great many people providing compensation during temporary absences
people who need support since 2001, when we preventing infection from the start of school life. Finding Essentials (others) 1,340,027 continue to face serious difficulties. We believe ongoing from work. Throughout the pandemic, Fast Retailing
delivered 10,000 items of fleece clothing to victims of out what is required by local people and supporting AIRism (innerwear) 508,166 support remains necessary to close some of the gaps continues doing business with a determination to
the massive Gujarat Earthquake in western India. them immediately is our philosophy of contribution and that still exist in the world today. overcome COVID-19 together with customers around
Monetary support $US 3,151,578
IVITCA
REHTEGOT
91-DIVOC
GNIMOCREVO
2202
TROPER
YTILIBANIATSUS
GNILIATER
TSA
LifeWear Is for Everybody
LifeWear is designed to make everyone’s life better.
It is the ultimate everyday wear that all people can wear comfortably in their own style.
Fast Retailing calls this product development concept “MADE FOR ALL” and aims
to achieve it by respecting the diversity of our world.
UNIQLO
Customer insights as
AIRism Absorbent Sanitary
the foundation of product development
Shorts
A three-layer structure that absorbs
Whenever we create new products, our aim is to enrich all lives. And designing for 30 to 40ml of water. It has an Odor
diversity requires awareness and understanding. That’s why we place great value on Control function designed to be
used with sanitary napkins. Shorts
the needs and insights of our customers everywhere, actively seeking out their views for girls (absorbs 25 to 30ml) are
and opinions. also available.
For example, in direct response to customer requests arising from the COVID-19 crisis,
we created our AIRism mask in 2020. Since its launch, we have continued to make
regular improvements to our AIRism mask based on feedback from customers.
In another example, we received a letter from a customer with a disability who faces
significant difficulty getting dressed. Learning about this difficulty was the genesis of
UNIQLO’s Front Open Innerwear. As part of the product development process, we
visited medical facilities and nursing homes to listen to people who faced such
difficulties, including caregivers. We obtained their thoughts on product samples and
asked how we might improve designs. Since launching the range, we have created nine
items, such as T-shirts, bras, and bodysuits for kids up to 160cm tall. The project has
helped a range of people, not only those who are hospitalized or with physical
UNIQLO
disabilities, but also those living with problems like frozen shoulder or people who have
undergone breast cancer surgery. Cotton Front Open Scoop
In March 2021, the GU BODY LAB–a special project that supports women’s health– UNIQLO Neck Long Sleeve T-shirt
launched GU’s first water-absorbing Triple Guard Shorts. Then, that September, UNIQLO Full of ingenious designs: hook and
Stretch
launched its AIRism Absorbent Sanitary Shorts and is accelerating efforts to meet loop fastener on the opening in the
Mesh Socks
feminine care needs based on our fundamental philosophy of supporting our customers front part makes it easier to put on
and take off; the comparably longer
with all of life’s needs, in all stages of their lives. Developed from the insights of length does not allow the back of
customers dealing with swollen legs
the shirt to stick out of trousers even
due to illness and those involved in
A store where everyone can enjoy shopping when bending down. Products
nursing care. A softened tightening
made with AIRism material are
around the ankle for relaxed
comfortable to wear even when
comfort.
perspiring.
In bringing LifeWear to all, we aim to understand the specific needs of all customers and to
create stores where everybody can enjoy shopping. Therefore, customer feedback is also
integral to store and service design.
At a UNIQLO store in Moscow, we conducted a
pre-opening shopping event for customers with UNIQLO
disabilities after rehearsing the event using
wheelchairs. Meanwhile, GU co-sponsored an AIRism
3D Mask
audition for models in wheelchairs and those who
use prosthetics and other support aids. While Even after 20 washes, the
participants choose clothes to wear at the final non-woven fabric filter maintains a
certain level of effectiveness. The
audition at a real shop, we asked participants clever design and non-woven fabric
about their experience at the store, and gained filter makes it easier to breathe while
important viewpoints, such as “It is difficult to pick wearing the mask. It is jointed
stitchless to have softer touch on the
up products from a wheelchair if stored below Co-sponsored a shopping event with skin. Designed by Tokujin Yoshioka.
IVITCA
YDOBYREVE
ROF
SI
RAEWEFIL
2202
TROPER
YTILIBANIATSUS
GNILIATER
TSA
Ten Years with Refugees
Fast Retailing has been supporting refugees and internally displaced people through its global partnership with UNHCR,
the UN Refugee Agency, since 2011.
In July 2021, we interviewed Mr. Filippo Grandi, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,
to discuss the current situation facing people being forced to flee and the importance of Fast Retailing’s contribution.
This is a summary of his response.
The refugee situation:
an important lesson from the COVID-19 pandemic
At the end of 2020, there were approximately 82.4 million refugees and displaced people: people
fleeing war, conflict, violence, discrimination and persecution. This is the ninth year in a row in
which this figure is increasing. These increasing figures mean old conflicts never get resolved and
new conflicts emerge. Look at what’s happened recently in Ethiopia, for example. The Syria crisis
is 10 years old; in Afghanistan, the conflict is over 40 years old. These are very worrying signs of
a world that has difficulty building peace. So unfortunately, if you look at the geopolitical context,
you cannot be too optimistic. You have to be realistic. This figure may continue to rise again in the
next few years.
The COVID-19 pandemic, dramatic as it may have been and continues to be, has taught us a very
important lesson. That these global challenges, such as coronavirus and climate change, cannot
be resolved country by country. They cannot be resolved by closing borders. If we go back into
our cocoons, we won’t be able to face the collective challenges that impact everyone, from
presidents and prime ministers to everyday people.
Throughout the pandemic, we’ve seen people come together. Let’s hope that this is an
accelerator for change and solidarity, because when it comes to people who are being forced to
About Fast Retailing’s support
flee, we need unity. We need solidarity. We need to continue to come together to find solutions,
either for people to return home or to be received in other countries, and in the meantime, to
continue to help them in a sustainable way.
46.19
More than million pieces of clothing
Sustainable support for people forced to flee their home countries
We collected clothing that was no longer needed
by customers and donated them to refugees and
In 2011, Fast Retailing became the first Asian company to sign a global partnership with UNHCR.
internally displaced people, collaborating with
UNHCR and other NPOs and NGOs around the This year, we celebrated the 10th year of sustainable support for displaced people. I myself have
world from 2006 to the end of August in 2021. seen many refugees and internally displaced people benefit from receiving clothing through this
During the pandemic, we have donated more
partnership, which has helped bring warmth and dignity to those in need.
than 3 million AIRism masks to people who were
forced to flee, to help prevent the spread of There has been an immediate humanitarian value in these donations, but I would also say that
COVID-19. we, UNHCR and Fast Retailing, must continue to focus on “How can we make refugees more
self-reliant?” We live in a world where a refugee crisis lasts 10 years, 20 years, and sometimes,
120 8
people in countries like in the case of Afghan refugees, more than 40 years–you cannot simply limit the response to
humanitarian distributions of food or medicine or tents. You must give sustainable responses to
UNIQLO has been promoting employment the crisis. And this is where the diversity, the depth of cooperation that we have with Fast
opportunities for people who were forced to flee
Retailing is very important and serves as a model for other similar partnerships in the private
their home countries since 2011. At the end of
April 2021, there were 120 displaced people sector. It would be great if this model can be replicated by other companies in Japan and around
working in UNIQLO stores across eight countries the world, because with these opportunities, people forced to flee can go on to build a brighter
in Japan, US and Europe. future for themselves and their communities.
19,000
Building self-reliance for people
Filippo Grandi
From 2016 to 2019, Fast Retailing contributed Elected by the General Assembly, Filippo Grandi became the 11th UN High
$5.5 million to UNHCR to support self-reliance Commissioner for Refugees on January 1, 2016. He leads UNHCR, the UN Refugee
Many refugees and internally displaced people who were forced to flee their homes due to conflict and persecution need not only assistance through the donation of goods and assistance programs for refugees. This Agency, which operates in 135 countries providing protection and assistance to more
clothing, but also support to become self-reliant. Fast Retailing has been working with UNHCR to support self-reliance assistance programs for refugees, such as refugee supported approximately 19,000 refugees than 82 million refugees, returnees, internally displaced people, as well as stateless
employment opportunities in global UNIQLO stores, educational programs, skill acquisition training, and clothing donations in refugee camps. (Left top photo: Colombia, 2018) across five Asian countries, through programs people. Mr. Grandi, an Italian national, has been engaged in international cooperation
Since 2020, Fast Retailing has been supporting MADE51, the global brand of handicrafts produced by refugees using their own local craftsmanship. (Right bottom photo: Egypt, such as employment training for skills needed for 35 years and holds degrees in modern history and philosophy, as well as an
EIVRETNI
SEEGUFER
HTIW
SRAEY
NET
2202
TROPER
YTILIBANIATSUS
GNILIATER
TSA
Worker Wellbeing as a Priority
Fast Retailing listens carefully to worker voices in the supply chain
to understand and address workplace issues. Eliminate stereotypes and build confidence
We go beyond our own boundaries to cooperate with governments
in women workers
and international organizations for better working environments.
Here are some examples of such projects. Ambia Akter
Supervisor, Green Textile Limited (EPIC Group)
“The greatest thing I have acquired in this training is confidence”, said Ms. Akter, who works at Green
Textile’s sewing factory. After attending the training, she was promoted to supervisor and now oversees
a line with 30 machines. At 8 am each day, she confirms the sewing line does not have any problems,
reviews reports, checks the attendance of members, and sets the goals for the day.
“I feel satisfied with my work when I consider how I can cooperate with all of my team members to achieve
our goals”, Ms. Akter said. Now 27 years old, Ms. Akter has been with the company for six years, starting
out as a sewing machine operator. One year ago, she attended Women’s Empowerment training,
introduced by Fast Retailing and UN Women, where she learned about leadership and communication.
Through the training, Ms. Akter realized she had been under the misconception that “women are incapable
of taking up managerial positions,” and then shifted her mindset to believe she is capable. This also
affected her surroundings. “Most supervisors used to be men. At first, I was told women were incapable of
being supervisors, but when I showed my achievements, male employees changed their attitudes.”
Since then, there have been some female workers who wish to be promoted to supervisors like Ms. Akter. “In
Bangladesh, the idea is still prevalent that women are less capable both at work and at home. But if we
are offered an appropriate and supportive environment where we can make our best efforts, women can
be promoted to leadership positions and boost their careers. We ourselves have to change our own
mindset that we cannot do something just because we are women,” she said.
After her promotion, Ms. Akter receives a stable income that is enough to support
her parents’ household, and she is confident she can further improve her life through
her own volition. “Now I can believe I am capable of doing things which I had never
dreamed of achieving when I started working. My next aim is to move up in my
career to become a production manager.” Embracing her newfound self-confidence,
Ms. Akter continues to challenge herself and tries to achieve new things.
Female supervisors increased tenfold after introducing
the in-house training project
Zahara Ashraff
President, Human Resources at EPIC Group
EPIC Group, Green Textile inclusive, is a global company with factories all over the world, which puts effort into
Women’s Confidence Opening Up Society supporting women, who make up 85% of its 30,000 employees. “In the garment industry, a patriarchal view of
work has long persisted, namely, that men take roles as managers, whereas women work as factory workers. It
has been one year since the company started offering its Women’s Empowerment training, originally introduced
in Bangladesh
by Fast Retailing and UN Women, through which the number of female supervisors has increased from nine to
92. Since the training began, it has become easier for female workers to talk to their supervisors about issues
common to women, such as family problems or physical conditions, and this has brought about greater levels
The garment industry is one of the main industries of Bangladesh, and a large part of it is supported by women. of cooperation in the workplace. Male employees also welcome the training, as it has helped them recognize
Unleashing their potential and expanding their field of activity will lead to the development of local communities. the potential of women and eliminate prejudices that hinder female achievement. Now
The “Women’s Empowerment Project”, launched by Fast Retailing in cooperation with UN Women, that female workers have the confidence in themselves to play more active roles in the
provides training for female workers in sewing factories and fosters personnel who can hold managerial positions. company, the overall productivity at our workplace has also improved. By providing
We interviewed two women involved in the project about the project’s significance. women with confidence and technical acumen, I hope to draw on our strengths, such as
empathy and the cultivation of human resources to operate the company. I will continue
to support workplaces where both men and women have equal opportunities to show
their maximum performance.”
EIVRETNI
YTIROIRP
A
SA
GNIEBLLEW
REKROW
2202
TROPER
YTILIBANIATSUS
GNILIATER
TSA
Worker Wellbeing and Beyond, Indonesia
Fast Retailing has been cooperating with the International Labour Organization (ILO) to strive for better working environments around Asia.
After entering into a partnership in 2019, we have worked together to help establish a new national employment insurance system in Indonesia
and conduct a comparative study of social security systems in nearby countries where Fast Retailing has manufacturing operations.
Here, we take a look at the past initiatives and future prospects, with Ms. Michiko Miyamoto, Director of ILO Country Office for Indonesia and Timor-Leste.
Respecting human rights
and labor environments in the supply chain
Fast Retailing strives to ensure human rights are respected throughout the supply chain
and that production is carried out in good working environments.
Here, we outline some key initiatives.
Left: Job fair in Jakarta,
December 2021.
Right: An international 01 Code of Conduct for Production Partners
conference conducted
by the ILO and the Fast Retailing established its Code of Conduct (CoC) for Production Partners in 2004 to protect
Ministry of Manpower to worker and human rights and to ensure decent working environments. Fast Retailing contracts only
learn about with partners who pledge to comply with our CoC, which formally stipulates labor standards such as
unemployment benefit
working hours and prohibits against child labor, forced labor and harassment. In some cases and
programs implemented
in five Asian countries, regions, the terms of our CoC go beyond minimum local legal requirements in accordance with
March 2020. international labor standards. It is reviewed regularly and updated whenever necessary.
02 Monitoring the working environments where people make our clothes
A historical first: Worker support system,
Fast Retailing monitors working environments and confirms CoC compliance status at key facilities
established by Fast Retailing and ILO
such as garment factories, subcontractors and fabric mills. Whenever necessary, we request that
facilities implement improvement initiatives according to the nature and severity of any risks we
Michiko Miyamoto
discover.
Country Director for Indonesia and Timor-Leste International Labour Organization We have established hotlines for factory employees, so they can consult with Fast Retailing directly
and anonymously in their local languages. We are also implementing preventive measures to stop
human rights violations, including harassment, child labor, exploitation of migrant workers and unfair
A new employment insurance system in Indonesia is due to come into effect in 2022, which was technically supported
or unlawful wages and benefits.
through the partnership between Fast Retailing and the ILO. As a private company, Fast Retailing contributed a total
We continue to pursue traceability down to the raw materials stage, and confirm working
of approximately 190 million yen—the largest cumulative contribution by a private company—to our joint project to
environments in order to ensure human rights due diligence and prevent human rights risks in the
help envision and establish a social security system to better protect Indonesian workers at times of sudden
entire supply chain.
unemployment. Although apparel brands often do not have employment contracts with factory workers, they
autonomously make efforts to protect the human rights of workers in their supply chain and ensure occupational 03 Responsible purchasing
health and safety in workplaces. In this project, Fast Retailing played a pioneering role to support workers, even
Responsible purchasing helps protect and improve the rights of workers employed by our suppliers.
beyond its own supply chain or the garment industry. Through its partnership with the ILO, Fast Retailing has
Accordingly, our procurement teams purchase responsibly. When placing an order, we develop a
contributed to improving the working environments of all Indonesian workers by advancing the country’s
purchase plan based on the production equipment and capacity of the factory, with quantity and
social security system. This is a significant achievement that represents strong leadership from a corporation.
delivery dates agreed in advance with no changes to be made without factory consent. Moreover, we
Throughout the COVID-19 crisis, like many other countries in Asia, Indonesia did not have an employment insurance
take care not to abuse the dominant bargaining position brands have when negotiating on prices and
system as advanced as those in Japan and elsewhere. They faced challenges to provide income security for their payment terms. Fast Retailing has developed guidelines on responsible purchasing and provides
unemployed workers. While the country suffered from surging unemployment caused by the pandemic, the training to all employees involved in procurement.
implementation of the new employment insurance system will help Indonesia’s workers. When the system goes into
effect, workers who have lost their jobs due to factory bankruptcy, dismissal or other unexpected reasons can receive 04 Disclosure of major production partners
benefits for up to six months during their period of unemployment. In addition, job seekers will be entitled to receive
Since 2017, Fast Retailing has been publishing and maintaining a list of major production partners to
job search assistance that will help them find new work as quickly as possible. This includes training to upgrade skills
increase the transparency of our supply chain, and to ensure good labor conditions and working
or reskilling to improve employability in different growth industries. In the consultation process around labor and social environments. By March 2022, we plan to publish a list of all garment factories that we have ongoing
security issues, it is always important to reflect the views of the government, workers and employers to develop an dealings with and are working to expand the scope of our disclosure to also include non-garment
effective and sustainable system. The ILO values and promotes such dialogues among the three parties. We worked factories.
together to understand the issues related to the employment insurance system. With the
05 Third-party partnerships and engagement
significant achievement of this partnership in Indonesia, the ILO has been receiving requests
from other countries in Asia seeking ILO’s technical assistance to improve their own
To help solve global social issues that cannot be addressed by any single company, we work
unemployment protection systems. I believe that Fast Retailing leadership and this pioneering proactively with respected NPOs, NGOs and industry groups, including UN Women, the International
initiative in Indonesia will catalyze efforts of the private sector and help promote decent work for Labour Organization (ILO). By engaging a diverse range of stakeholders across industries and
EIVRETNI
YTIROIRP
A
SA
GNIEBLLEW
REKROW
2202
TROPER
YTILIBANIATSUS
GNILIATER
TSA
Humanity + Technology
As technology continues to evolve,
its impact and influence upon our world and society grows.
Here, two very special guests and leaders in their fields–Shingo Kunieda,
wheelchair tennis great and currently the best in the world,
and Emma Kalayjian, Automotive–Aerospace UX designer–
joined us to talk about the relationship between humans and technology.
Humanity outpowering technology
Emma You have been playing tennis since you were 11 years old. How have wheelchairs for
tennis developed over that period?
Shingo Previously, all sports wheelchairs had aluminum frames. But the material later changed
to magnesium, and even carbon is used these days. The lighter a wheelchair is, the more
expensive it becomes. However, when skills and participation in the sport increase and the
latest technologies are used more widely, the price will decrease over time.
This creates opportunities for many more people to take advantage of that kind of advanced
technology. On the other hand, we need to remember it is still ultimately a person who is
Shingo Kunieda
playing tennis, even when cutting-edge technology is used. For the past five years, I have been
Shingo Kunieda is the greatest
testing the levels and angles of the seat. Changing the angle of the seat by only one millimeter
professional wheelchair tennis player
in history. His career highlights include makes the power transfer totally different.
29 men’s singles titles (25 Grand Emma Just one millimeter? How interesting! That even calibrating, only fractionally, can make
Slam titles, plus titles won in the such a big difference.
pre-Grand Slam era), a run of 107
consecutive singles wins, and gold Shingo Yes. Wheelchair tennis is not just about speed, but about a combination of movements,
medals in the men’s singles division including turns. I tried using motion capture technology to get data, but I realized: when thinking
at three Paralympics: Beijing 2008, about how to transmit power to a ball, it is not only objective data we must rely on, but also a
London 2012, and Tokyo 2020. In
2007, Kunieda achieved a wheelchair player’s own feeling.
tennis calendar Grand Slam for the Emma It is the same with design. Human emotions, including empathy, are important. When
first time in the sport’s history. He is building user persona profiles, we need to interview dozens of people. We need to consider
currently ranked world number one in
what barriers exist, and what we must do to overcome these. I’m sure for you there’s also a
the men’s singles division.
(As of September 2021) degree of psychology that goes into it all, too. Obviously, athletes do so much physical training.
What do you do to get mentally prepared?
Shingo Yes. After I incorporated mental training into my program, I moved up the rankings from
A society where technology 10th, to number one in the world. This type of mental training is really about how much you
believe in yourself. Instead of feeling weak, if you can convince yourself that you are the
and humanity are intertwined
strongest, then the power and the precision with which you hit a ball will go up. After a match,
however, you also need to question yourself about what you are still missing to keep winning
Emma First of all, congratulations on your gold medal at the Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Games, games. Otherwise, you can never improve both technically and mentally. That’s something I
Shingo. I can guess you were not able to do as much practice as usual under so many have been pursuing with tenacity.
COVID-19 restrictions, but how have you been over these last two years? Emma You are your own biggest fan and critic, right? I really liked your choice of words: “tenacity.”
Shingo Thank you. My turbulent two-year experience brought about by COVID-19 started in That’s one of my favorite words. I always like to say, “embrace the art of elegant tenacity”. And
March 2020. While I was warming up for the first match of the tournament on the UNIQLO what I mean by that is this mindset of, “I’m here, and I’m going to achieve this. I’m not going
Wheelchair Tennis Tour, the organizing committee decided to cancel the tournament, which Emma Kalayjian away until I do.”
resulted in me flying back to Japan immediately. After that, both the Olympics and the Building a career in the design and Shingo Personally, I want to broaden public interest in sport. To do that, I want to continue
Paralympics were postponed, and an uncertain future continued. engineering fields of both the taking part in tournaments. Specifically, the Paralympics were a good opportunity for many
Emma My lifestyle changed drastically, too. From working in the office from 9am to 5pm to automotive and aerospace industries, people to see and feel human potential, not only through wheelchair tennis, but also through
Emma Kalayjian works as a UX
working only remotely. At the moment, it feels as though my colleagues, and the interactions I designer. other sports, like blind soccer and swimming, for example. It would be nice if I can help as
have with them, exist mainly in my laptop. Even things that are important in our lives are now Emma recently established Spicy many people as possible through my tennis, to learn about the potential of human beings and
more intangible and non-physical. I feel that some relationships with coworkers, friends and Carrot, a media company focusing on what we can do, even in wheelchairs.
mobility. In 2021, she made the
family members have become virtual. Forbes 30 Under 30 - Enterprise Emma Looking for more people to broaden their interests…I have that kind of feeling too. I just
Shingo In sport, we cannot do things virtually; that is why sport is in crisis right now. Technology List. started a media company, which offers information on the future of mobility. As to the future of
Emma You need an opponent and an audience for most sports, and it is very hard to recreate mobility, we need to think not only about technological elements, but also about human
the energy generated by people in the real world. That human element is also an important aspects. What I want to do is create a bridge. I would love to do more outreach with high
theme in the automotive and aerospace fields in which I am engaged. Automation has school students, for example. I want to present very technical topics in a non-technical, very
progressed in both industries, but it is still not clear how the relationship between humans and left-field way. Because I think that is how you make these things appealing to people who
cars should be changed, or how much human engagement should be retained. We haven’t have no interest in it. You appeal to them, and you bring out this common interest that you
ITASREVNOC
YGOLONHCET
+
YTINAMUH
2202
TROPER
YTILIBANIATSUS
GNILIATER
TSA
Generation Next, Finding a Way
Five Questions
As issues of global concern continue to mount–climate change, environmental damage and social injustice–
1. Which three hashtags would you use to describe your work?
an increasing number of young leaders is emerging,
2. Please briefly describe your environmental efforts.
determined to take ownership of these challenges and engage their generation for positive change. 3. What prompted you to begin taking action?
We spoke with four young leaders from Generation Z to hear about their commitment to the future. 4. What do you want the world to be like in 2030?
5. What do we need in order to take the first step for the future of our world?
Abby Fuirst
23, United States, Community Organizer of OVERDUE
1. #trashpickup #leavenotrace #community
2. The goal of OVERDUE is to develop a network of people who come together
to make our communities cleaner and greener by picking up trash together. We
believe that our fun and engaging cleanups help keep our neighborhoods clean
while improving our volunteers’ mental health, offering a positive outlet of
support and a place to flourish. Additionally, OVERDUE supports leaders of all
ages who prioritize cleanliness in their neighborhoods. 3. Growing up in an area
rich with nature and loving time spent outdoors, I always wanted younger
generations to have the same experiences I had as a kid. While working to
achieve that goal in Los Angeles, I found OVERDUE. I wanted to learn more
about the effect overconsumption had on our planet. This idea motivated me to
volunteer, picking up trash in my community with OVERDUE. 4. Future
generations should not have to worry about climate change, natural disasters,
food shortages, the extinction of endangered species, widespread epidemics, or
poverty. Unfortunately, situations like these will worsen if we don’t act soon and
create positive change. 5. To that end, we can start by reducing our consumption
and reusing more effectively to lessen the amount of waste we produce.
Helly Tong
26, Vietnam, Founder of The Yên Concept and Lai Day Refill Station
1. #sustainable #socialimpact #greenvision
Shomy Hasan Chowdhury, Rijve Arefin
2. “I want to be a part of an environmentally-friendly world, striving for better and
more sustainable solutions.” Everything I have been doing until now came from
(Both) 26, Bangladesh, Co-founders of Awareness 360
that desire. The Yên Concept places emphasis on human-nature connection by
1. #SDGs #WASH #YouthEmpowerment providing mainly greenery products while Lai Day Refill Station is known for its
refill services as described in the slogan “Lại đây, lại đầy,” which means “refill” in
2. Through our activities, such as workshops at Awareness 360, we have been working on improving public Vietnamese, thereby supporting forestation activities and local communities. 3.
sanitation and hygiene with a focus on water. In addition, we have been supporting vulnerable people through I had once doubted myself, and had been convinced that the path to my dream
grassroots efforts, while also striving to raise awareness about the importance of lifestyle changes for a was full of challenges and limitations ahead. Yet, when I reflect on all the
healthy life. 3. As co-founders, we both have strong personal reasons for our commitment to these activities: blessings I got along the way, I gradually believe that little changes could make
for Shomy, the sudden loss of her mother from severe diarrhea led her to act and promote water sanitation. big differences. From then on, business models were established, following my
For Rijve, struggles he faced in his own childhood motivated him to protect the rights of children and support inspired love for the environment and nature. 4. What I can clearly see about the
youth. 4. Our generation is the last to be able to change the future in 10 years; we need the world to become world in 2030 is that there should be no boundaries, but diversity and inclusion.
sustainable, peaceful, equal, and healthy. 5. We don’t have to change the whole world at once, but it is Accordingly, creativity should be encouraged to solve problems including
critical to each make a big change, realizing the role we all play and making better lifestyle choices every climate change. 5. Authentic community, empathy, and a fresh start are the keys
day. This will lead to the world becoming a better place to live in. to taking action.
EIVRETNI
YAW
A
GNIDNIF
,TXEN
NOITARENEG
2202
TROPER
YTILIBANIATSUS
GNILIATER
TSA
Giving Back to the World
Fast Retailing collaborates with the Fast Retailing Foundation and the Yanai Tadashi Foundation
and works with NGOs and NPOs to understand the needs of local communities everywhere,
providing support where and how it is needed. Below, we introduce some example initiatives of
our community engagement work around the world. Emergency and disaster support
2,091,314
No. of beneficiaries in this area (FY 2021) :
(Including COVID-19 related support)
In February 2021, UNIQLO donated approximately 25,000
clothing items to people hit by a wave of low temperatures in
Austin, Texas. We delivered a LifeWear package created in
response to conditions at the time of the disaster. Each
package contained items of clothing that were easy to carry
and useful for controlling body temperatures.
Next generation empowerment
138,282 Promoting culture and the arts
No. of beneficiaries in this area (FY 2021) :
236,566
No. of beneficiaries in this area (FY 2021) :
The Fast Retailing Foundation contributes to the
Asian University for Women in Bangladesh, with the
UNIQLO is widening the horizons of our contribution to the
aim of promoting female leadership in Asia and
arts around the world. Beginning with the Museum of Modern
supporting the advancement of female leaders on
Art of New York, our folio of global art partnerships has grown
the world stage. Through this initiative, many
to include other major institutions around the world, such as
motivated women obtain an opportunity to study at
London’s Tate Modern and the Louvre Museum in Paris.
university, irrespective of their financial status or
Through such partnerships, we sponsor free admission
cultural background. Since 2013, the Fast Retailing
Fast Retailing Foundation programs, guided tours, and collaboration products, aiming to
Foundation has supported more than 200 women
make art more accessible and enjoyable for all.
with $2.95 million in scholarships and $5 million in
support for the construction of new school buildings.
Local environment conservation
initiatives
Supporting people in crisis No. of beneficiaries in this area (FY 2021) : 405,500
No. of beneficiaries in this area (FY 2021) :
In Europe and North America, UNIQLO participated in the
4,608,058
garbage collection activities of World Cleanup Day, a global
Clothing donations in 79 Afghanistan / Algeria / Angola / Australia / event. In France, World Cleanup Day presented an
UNIQLO has provided support to many people countries and regions, with Bangladesh / Belarus / Belgium / Botswana / opportunity for employees to think about the issues of
facing difficult situations due to COVID-19. In approximately 46.19 million Brazil / Burkina Faso / Burundi / Cambodia / homeless people while cleaning the city together with
Malaysia, we collaborated with an NGO, The Lost clothing items Cameroon / Canada / Central African Republic / homelessness support groups. In Korea (UNIQLO) and
Chad / China / Colombia / Cote d’Ivoire /
Food Project, to provide approximately 500,000 (As of the end of August 2021) Taiwan (UNIQLO and GU), we participated in beach cleaning
Democratic Republic of the Congo / Denmark /
meals to socially vulnerable people. In Russia, Eswatini / Ethiopia / France / Georgia / activities.
UNIQLO worked with local charitable organizations
The clothing items collected through reuse Germany / Greece / Haiti / Hong Kong / India /
to support people in need, donating its HEATTECH and recycling activities of each Fast Indonesia / Iraq / Italy / Japan / Jordan /
clothing to homeless people, as well as to elderly Retailing brand provide essential clothing to Kazakhstan / Kenya / Kyrgyz Republic / Laos /
people who became isolated because of COVID-19. Lebanon / Liberia / Malawi / Malaysia / Diversity & inclusion initiatives
refugees and internally displaced people
Mauritania / Mozambique / Myanmar / Namibia /
around the world, support the independence Nepal / Netherlands / Niger / Pakistan / No. of beneficiaries in this area (FY 2021) : 16,125
of women and young people and bring
Philippines / Russia / Rwanda / Saudi Arabia /
clothing relief to people in crisis from natural
Senegal / Serbia / Sierra Leone / Singapore /
Since 2017, Theory has been conducting Be Heard, its
disasters and other emergencies. Solomon Islands / South Africa / South Korea /
program to empower women. Through Be Heard, Theory
South Sudan / Spain / Sri Lanka / Syria /
invites female entrepreneurs and innovators to talk about
Taiwan / Tajikistan / Tanzania / Thailand / Togo /
Tunisia / Uganda / United Kingdom / United social issues and diversity topics and share inspirational
States / Vietnam / Yemen / Zambia / Zimbabwe stories about their careers. To date, 19 panelists have
IVITCA
DLROW
EHT
OT
KCAB
GNIVIG
2202
TROPER
YTILIBANIATSUS
GNILIATER
TSA
Corporate Governance
Fast Retailing strives for a responsive and transparent management system.
To this end, we work on building an effective corporate governance system
by enhancing the functions of the Board of Directors and internal control systems.
Enhancing the organization system to
promote sustainability-related activities
Through various committees, our company directors, auditors, external advisors and
executive officers engage in vigorous discussion to deal with risks and provide
solutions to crucial issues such as the environment and human rights.
[Sustainability Committee] The company president and CEO, as the executive officer
with overall responsibility for sustainability, appoints directors and an executive
officer in charge of sustainability. The Sustainability Committee works to promote
sustainability activities that align with and leverage the Fast Retailing business. In FY
2021, the committee shaped the direction and momentum of various projects,
including efforts to deal with environmental problems, respect for human rights within
our supply chain, and social contribution activities. Among these issues, the
committee had a special focus on issues related to the environment, specifically
climate change, reviewing plans for Fast Retailing’s action in this area.
[Human Rights Committee] With an external advisor as its head, the Human Rights
Committee advises on human rights due diligence and important human rights issues.
In accordance with our 2018 human rights policy, the committee guides operations
and promotes education programs to ensure our business is conducted in a way that
respects human rights. In the event that information about a potential human rights
violation comes through our anonymous hotline or other means, the committee
provides counsel for and supervision of investigation and remedial measures.
Strengthening internal
control systems
Compliance with laws and social standards is of fundamental importance to healthy
Corporate Governance at Fast Retailing (As of November 26, 2021)
business operations. We established the Fast Retailing Group Code of Conduct as a
set of behavioral and ethical standards for employees. Each year, we regularly carry
out e-learning and other educational programs to verify all our employees have read,
Shareholders (General Meeting of Shareholders)
understood and agreed to comply with the Code.
Elect/dismiss Elect/dismiss
Fast Retailing Corporate Governance
Human Resources Committee
Detailed information and reports about Fast Retailing’s corporate governance and
internal control measures are available at
Report Sustainability Committee www.fastretailing.com/eng/about/governance/
Consult
Disclosure Committee
Board of
Board of Directors
Statutory Auditors
(Three out of five are Audit/report (Five eo xu tt e o rf n n ai ln )e are Elect/dismiss IT Investment Committee
external)
Code of Conduct Committee
Business Ethics Committee
Risk Management Committee
Report Report/cooperation E rele mc ot, v d ei ,s sm ui ps es r, vn iso eminate,
Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee
Internal Chief Executive Officers
Independent
Audit Human Rights Committee Auditors
Division Audit/report Counsel/supervise
NANREVOG
ECNANREVOG
ETAROPROC
2202
TROPER
YTILIBANIATSUS
GNILIATER
TSA
Corporate Information
The Fast Retailing Group posts detailed information on its sustainability activities,
corporate information and investor relations information on its website
and communicates with a variety of stakeholders.
[For customers] Information to realize a better future Fast Retailing
We send out information for everyone so that we can think together about people, the planet, and society. Sustainability Report 2022
UNIQLO Sustainability / THE POWER OF CLOTHING FIND YOUR SUSTAINABILITY MODE
Learn more about UNIQLO's sustainability activities. Movies about the activities of LifeWear Special Ambassadors.
www.uniqlo.com/jp/en/contents/sustainability/ www.uniqlo.com/jp/en/contents/sustainability/sustainability_mode/ [About this report]
Fast Retailing Sustainability Report 2022, published by Fast Retailing Co., Ltd., outlines the company’s
social and environmental initiatives, including its corporate policies and activities worldwide.
[Report coverage]
Unless otherwise stated, this report primarily covers the sustainability related activities of Fast Retailing
Co., Ltd., and its subsidiaries worldwide (Fast Retailing Group).
[Reporting period]
Unless otherwise stated, data disclosed in this report is based on Fast Retailing’s fiscal year, from
[For investors and shareholders] Information related to business processes September 1, 2020 to August 31, 2021. Some particularly important content is based on the most recent
information at the time of publication.
We produce and deliver clothes without putting unnecessary burdens on the earth, in environments where health, safety and human rights are protected. [Publication]
February 2022
The next English report is scheduled for publication in February 2023.
Investor relations Sustainability at Fast Retailing
Learn more about the management of Fast Retailing Group. Learn more about the sustainability activities of Fast Retailing Group. Text Masashi Matsuie (pages 6 to 13), Junko Sato (pages 20 to 23),
Yoko Sueoka (pages 24 to 27 and 30 to 31), and Fast Retailing for other content
www.fastretailing.com/eng/ir/ www.fastretailing.com/eng/sustainability/ Photo KEI KONDO (Cover, pages 6 to 9, pages 11 to 13, pages 15 to17 Left, pages 22 to 23, pages 30 to 31
and pages 36 to 37), Naoki Hashimoto (pages 4 to 5), Second Life Studio @The Bakery / Dahahm Choi
(page 17 Right), Shinsuke Kamioka (page 18 Left, page 21 Right and page 24 Left top), Shu Tokonami
(page 18 Right), © UNHCR/Eugenia Paz (page 20 Left), Fondazione Progetto ARCA Onlus / Daniele
Lazzaretto (page 21 Left), © UNHCR/P Gomes (page 24 Right bottom), KINYA (page 25), UN Women /
Pornvit Visitoran (pages 26 to 27), Inspired by: The Astronomer / Johannes VERMEER / 1668 The
Winged Victory of Samothrace © Musée du Louvre Louvre Pyramid © I.M. Pei © 2022 Yu Nagaba (page
35 Second from the top)
Annual report Fast Retailing sustainability data book
Access the Fast Retailing annual report for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2021. Learn more about ESG data of Fast Retailing Group.
www.fastretailing.com/eng/ir/library/annual.html www.fastretailing.com/eng/sustainability/report/data.html
[Disclaimer]
This report provides factual information on Fast Retailing Co., Ltd. and its Group companies, as well as plans and
prospects at the date of publication. The report also includes forecasts based on management policies and
strategies. These forecasts are based on assumptions or judgments made using information available at the time of
publication. Actual results and future business activities may differ from these forecasts due to changes in business
conditions and other factors.
ITAMROFNI
NOITAMROFNI
ETAROPROC
2202
TROPER
YTILIBANIATSUS
GNILIATER
TSA