H&M Group
Annual and Sustainability Report 2022
Contents
Some words and phrases used in this report ..........4 Statutory annual report
CEO letter
Corporate governance report 2022 ..................55
Administration report ................................73
CEO letter ............................................6
— Statutory Sustainability Report ...................86
H&M Group at a glance — TCFD climate risk analysis ........................103
Financial reports ....................................108
H&M Group at a glance ...............................11
— Group statements ................................108
Key figures ..........................................12
— Parent company statements ...................... 114
Sales and stores per region ..........................13
— Notes to the financial statements ................. 118
Highlights 2022 ......................................14
Signing of the annual report ........................ 141
Our overall business idea ............................16
Auditor’s report .....................................142
Our culture and values ...............................18
Other information
Customer in focus
Key financial performance measures ................147
Fashion and design ..................................21
The H&M share .....................................150
Our brands and business ventures ...................24
Annual general meeting ............................ 151
Our omni-model .....................................30
Calendar ........................................... 151
— Circular customer journeys ........................31
Contact details .....................................152
— Stores ............................................32
— Online ............................................33
— Initiatives for an improved customer experience ...34 How we report
Demand-driven supply chain This pdf document contains H&M Group’s annual
and sustainability report. It includes comments
Customer demand-driven production ...............37 from our CEO and a description of our business,
Towards recycled, regenerative and responsibly followed by our legal annual report. See our
sourced materials .......................................40 corporate governance report on pages 55-72,
Reducing greenhouse gas emissions .................42 the administration report including the statutory
sustainability report on pages 73-107, and the
Fair jobs and positive social impacts ..................43
financial reports on pages 108-140.
Logistics and distribution ............................44
Packaging ...........................................45
Our annual and sustainability report complies with
the applicable Swedish and EU legislation as well
Our approach to sustainability
as the International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) adopted by the EU. External frameworks in this
Sustainability – integrated in our business ...........47
report include the Task Force on Climate-Related
Key sustainability goals ..............................49
Financial Disclosure (TCFD), which can be found as a
Innovation and collaboration part of the administration report on pages 103-107.
Innovation ...........................................51 We complement our annual and sustainability
report with the sustainability disclosure, which
Collaboration and partnership .......................52
provides additional detailed information on our
sustainability strategy, policies, goals, programmes
and performance data. The sustainability disclosure
complies with external reporting frameworks such
as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the UN
Some words and phrases
used in this report
Throughout this report we use certain Customer-facing circular business models is an
additional term we use to describe circular customer
words and phrases to describe our
journeys. Circular business models can be in place
approach to addressing specific social
throughout the entire ecosystem. When we talk about
and environmental issues. Here, we care, repair and reuse models, we frame them as
explain what we mean by these terms. customer-facing circular business models.
Fair compensation in our production supply chain
Circular and circularity are terms we use throughout refers to a wage that — in a regular work week,
this report in different contexts. We use them as high- without overtime — is enough to meet the basic needs
level terms to describe activities aligned with the Ellen of employees and their families and provide some
MacArthur Foundation’s (EMF) definition of circular discretionary income. As a minimum, the wage should
economy, which focuses on three principles: eliminate meet legal levels or applicable collective bargaining
waste and pollution, circulate products and materials agreement levels — whichever is higher.
(at their highest value), and regenerate nature. More
specifically, we support and aspire to the EMF vision Our vision to lead the change means innovating,
for a circular fashion industry, where products are incubating and investing in scaling new materials,
designed to be used more, made to be made again, technologies and business models with the potential
and made from safe and recycled or renewable inputs. to decouple our business growth from resource use.
Where we reference our circular ecosystem, we are It means trying to do things differently, daring to
referring to putting all these principles into practice take the first step. It means sharing more data and
through the way we operate our business and create working to improve the accuracy and comparability
our products, including: of industrywide disclosure. And finally, it means
collaborating with others to change the way the
— Circular products: Creating products that are industry works and create the legislative environment
made to last from safe, recycled, regenerative or and infrastructure required for the fashion sector of
other more sustainably sourced materials that can the future.
circulate multiple times.
More sustainably sourced, sourced in a more
— Circular supply chains: Building scalable systems sustainable way or more sustainable describes
that circulate products and materials for repair, materials or raw material production, processes, our
reuse and recycling and uses lower-impact overall operational activity, or that of our suppliers
production processes — such as dyeing, printing that have a reduced negative environmental impact
and finishing. compared to conventional alternatives. We base this
assessment on various qualitative and quantitative
— Circular customer journeys: Providing convenient comparative data sources including third-party
ways to engage in circular fashion where products lifecycle assessment (LCA) data, external benchmarks
are used more before being repaired, reused and and assessments, supply chain assessment scores,
recycled. and data on other KPIs. We further define more
sustainably sourced for different materials in our
Material Categorisation, Responsible Raw Material
Preferred transport options refers to modes of
transport including 100% biofuel, electric and zero
emissions vehicles1.
Regenerative agriculture is a concept we refer
to in relation to raw material production. It is a
holistic approach to agriculture that focuses on the
interconnection of farming systems and nature.
Regenerative farming practices can improve soil health
and strengthen the resilience of farmers while also
restoring natural habitats.
Responsible is one of the three pillars of our long-
term material sourcing vision. In this context it means
sourcing materials with the overall aim to respect
human rights and reduce environmental impact
while contributing to sustainable development in the
countries where we source2. This is the foundation of
all our sourcing decisions. The broader definition of
what constitutes a responsible company is defined
by international frameworks and for H&M Group it
means understanding and taking action to address our
impacts on people and the planet, supported by robust
systems of governance and transparent external
communications.
Reverse supply chain is a term for a system that
brings used products, materials and production waste
back into circulation either as second-hand products,
or to be reused or recycled and diverted back into the
production system as valuable resources.
1) A zero-emissions vehicle is one that does not emit exhaust gas or other
pollutants when operational.
2) Our definition of responsible sourcing is based on the OECD Guidelines
CEO letter
Looking back at 2022, it was a External factors
Entering 2022, we had left the worst of the negative
turbulent year marked by the war
effects of the pandemic behind us and were off to a
in Ukraine and our thoughts are
good start with well-received collections, increased
with all the people affected by this full-price sales and lower markdowns. Then war broke
devastating humanitarian crisis. out in Ukraine, which quickly made us decide to pause
sales in the countries affected, make donations in
Although the year was challenging, our
support of Ukraine and eventually wind down our
investments and continuous work on business in Russia and Belarus. This affected many
our customer offering have had good of our colleagues in a negative way and we did our
utmost to provide support. The consequences of our
results, and full-year sales increased
decision also had a significant negative impact on our
by 12 percent.
results, since Russia was an important and profitable
market for us.
In times of high inflation, when household living costs
are rising significantly, it has been more important than Our results were further impacted by the high inflation,
ever to offer customers great value for money — and which led to increased costs for freight, raw materials
that is exactly what all our unique brands do. and energy. In combination with a historically strong
US dollar, the costs for purchases of goods increased
We broadened the customer offering further by substantially. Rather than passing on the full increase
launching our sportswear initiative H&M Move, which to our customers, we chose to strengthen our market
was well received by customers worldwide. This is only position further.
one of many examples of how we continued to grow
our H&M brand, one of the world’s largest fashion To further counter the cost increases and at the same
destinations. Our other brands — COS, Weekday, time address the major shift that is continuing in our
Monki, & Other Stories and ARKET — increased sales industry, we carried out extensive work to prioritise
by 22 percent during the year. various initiatives and review our organisation. In the
autumn we therefore initiated a cost and efficiency
We also continued to provide our customers with programme, which is expected to have positive effects
various services that, for example, are connected to in the second half of 2023. We are very mindful of
reuse and recycling. These initiatives enable products the fact that our colleagues are affected by this, and
to circulate and resources to be kept in use for as long we are doing everything we can to support those
as possible. concerned.
These examples and so much more have been made The lower profit for the year compared to 2021 is
possible thanks to our dedicated and amazing teams mainly explained by the negative external factors that
that always put customers first. I want to express my affected our purchasing costs, loss of the operating
gratitude to colleagues all across the world for their profit from Russia and a one-time cost for the cost and
hard work over the past year. efficiency programme. This was most evident in the
fourth quarter, when the combined negative impact
of these factors amounted to around SEK 5 billion
Further integrated sales channels supply chain, we can improve customer satisfaction
Our portfolio of around 4,500 stores worldwide is a by ensuring better precision in our quantification,
great asset for us. In combination with our digital sales allocation, pricing, personalisation and local relevance
channels, our stores enable us to meet our customers — all while contributing to leaner production and more
when, where and how they want. sustainable use of resources.
We are continuously optimising the store portfolio Our approach to sustainability
to make sure we have the right store with the right Sustainability is an integral part of our business. This is
format in the right place in each market. This means underlined by our 2030 goal, which combine targets
that we have closed some stores, mostly in established for company growth and profit with reductions in
markets, opened new ones in growth markets, and also greenhouse gas emissions.
refurbished and rightsized store areas. At the same
time, we continued the integration of our physical To reach our ambitious climate goals of halving the
and digital sales channels, which strengthen and group’s greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and
complement each other. achieving net-zero by 2040, we invest in projects to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions throughout our
To ensure additional capacity and flexibility between whole value chain. During the year, our climate goals
our sales channels as well as improved availability for were verified by the Science Based Targets initiative
our customers, we continued to invest in tech, AI and and we established the Green Fashion Initiative to
signed long-term virtual power purchase agreements Outlook
in the UK, Sweden and Spain to cover electricity Looking ahead, our main focus is on continuing to
consumption in our operations in a majority of invest in and develop our customer offering and
European markets. This will not only help us reduce our shopping experience for our unique brands, so that we
greenhouse gas emissions, but also secure our energy keep meeting and exceeding our customers’ needs
prices. and expectations.
Our sustainability work was recognised by, among Despite the turbulent world around us, H&M Group
others, the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for stands strong with a wide customer base, a robust
the 11th consecutive year. As one of only 12 global retail financial position, healthy cash flow and a well-
companies in the index, we are assessed as a leader in balanced inventory. Sales in 2023 have started well,
environmental, social and governance performance. showing that we can grow even in troubled times and
when customers’ purchasing power is diminishing.
Investments in sustainability provide the group with We expect the external factors that have negatively
long-term business opportunities. By building strategic affected our purchasing costs to gradually reverse and
partnerships with key stakeholders and growing in become positive in the second half of 2023.
various innovative ways such as circular business
models, we can grow our business in a way that Our financial strength and long-term approach enable
decouples our financial growth and profitability from us to continue investing, and we are increasing capex
the use of finite natural resources. A good example from SEK 7 billion in 2022 to SEK 10 billion in 2023. All
of this is majority-owned fast-growing Sellpy, which factors combined, there are very good prerequisites
is already one of the biggest players in second-hand for 2023 to be a year of increased sales and improved
fashion in Europe. profitability. Thus, our goal of achieving a double-digit
operating margin for full-year 2024 remains in place.
Our investment arm CO:LAB is a way for us to explore We see great potential for future expansion — despite
new business models, and in addition to Sellpy we our size, we can still grow and prosper further in new
have invested in startups such as Smartex, Renewcell and existing markets.
and Colorifix, to mention just a few. Our investments
have in a short time created significant value, for This is all thanks to the commitment from colleagues
example by improving the customer experience and all around the world, who continue to build our
enabling scaling and commercialisation of recycled company, stand true to our values and ensure we
and more sustainably sourced materials. always realise the business idea that our founder
laid the ground for 75 years ago — to deliver our
We will continue to make investments in new business customers unbeatable value with the best combination
models, materials and technologies that have the of fashion, quality, price and sustainability.
potential to drive radical shifts in how we make and
remake our products, and how our customers can
experience fashion. Alongside these efforts, we will
keep working for increased levels of transparency to
empower customers to make more informed decisions Helena Helmersson, CEO
about the products they buy. H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB
H&M Group
at a glance
H&M Group at a glance ...............................11
Key figures ..........................................12
Sales and stores per region ..........................13
Highlights 2022 ......................................14
Our overall business idea ............................16
Our culture and values ...............................18
224 30%
~
BILLION SEK IN NET SALES, ONLINE SALES AS A SHARE OF THE
+12% VS. 2021 GROUP’S NET TOTAL
79 24
MARKETS WITH ONLINE SALES IN BILLION SEK IN CASH FLOW FROM
58 MARKETS OPERATING ACTIVITIES
84%
44%
RECYCLED OR OTHER MORE SUSTAINABLY
SOURCED MATERIALS IN OUR COMMERCIAL ABSOLUTE REDUCTION OF PLASTIC
GOODS. INCLUDES 23% RECYCLED PACKAGING COMPARED TO 2018 BASELINE,
MATERIALS, TAKING US CLOSER TO OUR ACHIEVING OUR PLASTIC REDUCTION
GOAL OF 30% RECYCLED MATERIALS BY 2025 TARGET OF 25% AHEAD OF TIME
75%
150,000
OF THE POSITIONS OF RESPONSIBILITY
EMPLOYEES - CONVERTED INTO FULL-TIME WITHIN OUR OPERATIONS ARE HELD
POSITIONS, THE NUMBER WAS 106,522 BY WOMEN
Key figures
1 DECEMBER–30 NOVEMBER 2022 2021 2020
Net sales, SEK m 223,553 198,967 187,031
Change net sales from previous year in SEK, % +12 +6 -20
Change net sales previous year in local currencies, % +6 +12 -18
Operating profit, SEK m 7,169 15,255 3,099
Operating margin, % 3.2 7.7 1.7
Profit after financial items, SEK m 6,216 14,300 2,052
Profit after tax, SEK m 3,566 11,010 1,243
Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, SEK m 21,707 27,471 16,540
Stock-in-trade, SEK m 42,495 37,306 38,209
Average number of shares outstanding, thousands1 1,649,847 1,655,072 1,655,072
Earnings per share, SEK1 2.16 6.65 0.75
Cash flow from operating activities, SEK m 24,476 44,619 25,900
Dividend per share excluding own shares, SEK1, 2 6.50 6.50 -
Return on equity, % 6.4 19.2 2.2
Total number of stores 4,465 4,801 5,018
Average number of employees 106,522 107,375 110,325
1 DECEMBER–30 NOVEMBER GOAL 2022 2021 2020
Climate: % absolute reduction in GHG emissions -56% by 2030 Scope 1 & 2: -8% Scope 1 & 2: -22 Scope 1 & 2: +15
(scope 1, 2 and 33) compared with 2019 baseline4. Scope 3: -7 Scope 3: -3 Scope 3: -8
Climate: % renewable electricity in own operations 100% by 2030 92 95 90
– Total 100% by 2030 84 80 65
Commercial goods:
% of recycled or other
– Other more sustainably sourced - 61 62 59
more sustainably
sourced materials used
– Recycled 30% by 2025 23 18 6
1) Before and after dilution, excluding own shares.
2) Dividend which was decided and paid during the year.
3) Excluding use-phase emissions.
4) In 2022, we changed the reporting year for energy data and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to align with our financial year. Therefore, we have updated
Sales and stores per region
NET SALES 2022 NET SALES 2021 NEW STORES (NET) NUMBER OF STORES
(SEK M) (SEK M) DURING THE YEAR 30 NOV 2022
The Nordics 20,128 19,675 -28 399
Western Europe 71,452 63,648 -48 1,079
Eastern Europe1 21,991 22,718 -172 481
Southern Europe 28,611 25,550 -27 623
North & South America 50,990 40,230 -16 740
Asia, Oceania & Africa 30,381 27,146 -45 1,143
Total 223,553 198,967 -336 4,465
1) Eastern Europe was impacted by the war and the fact that all sales in Russia, Belarus and Ukraine were paused at the time of the invasion. In August
stores in Russia were reopened to sell off the remaining stock as part of the winding down of the Russian operations. As the goods sold out, the
stores were closed permanently. The stores in Belarus were also reopened during the autumn and sold off their stock. The last stores in Russia and
Belarus closed on 30 November.
Highlights 2022
Dow Jones Sustainability Index H&M Move
H&M Group was included in the Dow Jones The group’s newest initiative H&M Move, a broadened
Sustainability World Index for the 11th year running. As sportswear assortment, has been well received since
one of only 12 global retail companies in the index, the its launch in August. It is designed to reduce barriers to
score put H&M Group in the list of global companies sports and get everybody moving.
recognised as leaders in environmental, social and
governance performance. We were also included in
Climate Goals SBTi approved
the S&P Global Sustainability Yearbook.
Our climate goals were verified by the Science Based
Targets initiative. The ambition is to achieve net-zero
Second hand platform Sellpy
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2040 and to reduce
Sellpy continues to grow rapidly and increased sales by absolute scope 1, 2 and 31 GHG emissions by 56 percent
85 percent in 2022. Sellpy is already one of the biggest by 20302.
providers of second hand fashion in Europe and is
expected to exceed 1 billion SEK in sales in 2023. More
New markets
than eight million second hand items were traded on the
platform across 24 markets in 2022. H&M opened its first stores in Ecuador, Kosovo, North
Macedonia, and via franchise in Cambodia, Costa Rica
and Guatemala.
Green Fashion Initiative
We established the Green Fashion Initiative to support
New partnerships for renewable solar
our suppliers in replacing fossil fuels. As of January
energy
2023, we have 17 approved projects with a potential
annual reduction of 50,000 tonnes CO2e in our
We signed long-term virtual power purchase
supply chain, and a potential additional reduction of
agreements (VPPAs) in the UK, Sweden and Spain to
approximately 140,000 tonnes beyond our own value
cover electricity consumption in our own operations
chain.
in a majority of European markets. This will not only
help us reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, but also
CDP score of A- in climate secure our energy prices. As part of having signed
Sweden’s largest VPPA, the construction of a solar
H&M Group achieved CDP scores of A- in the climate
park will commence in 2023, which will supply H&M
module, which is the second-best score of a company’s
Group with renewable electricity at a fixed price.
environmental performance and transparency
connected to it.
New Water Strategy 2030 Community Investment Initiatives
We reduced relative water consumption in our supply We contributed 114.2 million SEK to community
chain by 38 percent, compared to a 2017 baseline. investment initiatives, reaching 745,517 beneficiaries.
Building on this achievement, we launched our Water
Strategy 2030, which focuses on absolute water use
Fashion Transparency Index
reduction rather than measuring relative water efficiency,
to clearly decouple growth from resource use. We were ranked fourth out of 250 fashion brands and
retailers reviewed by Fashion Revolution’s 2022 Fashion
Transparency Index. Companies are ranked according
Corporate Responsibility Reporting
to their level of public disclosure of key topics such as
Awards
human rights and environmental policies, practices and
impacts.
Our 2020 Sustainability Performance Report was
second runner-up for the Best Report and winner
for Relevance & Materiality. The report was also first
runner-up for the Best Carbon Disclosure Report,
second runner-up for Creativity in Communications, and
fourth runner-up for Openness & Honesty.
Image
Our overall
business idea
The year 2022 marked 75 years We aim to grow our business in a way that decouples
our financial growth and profitability from the use
since our founder Erling Persson was
of finite natural resources, so that business and
inspired to build the foundation for
communities can thrive within the planetary boundaries.
a customer-focused, creative, value- In early 2022, we strengthened this ambition by
driven and responsible fashion and introducing a goal to double our sales while halving our
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 20301.
design company, offering customers
all around the world the best Our financial strength and long-term approach give
combination of fashion, quality, price us the ability to continue investing in improvements
to our customer offering and experience as well as
and sustainability.
in innovations across our value chain such as in tech
development, materials and new business models.
We give our customers unbeatable value and access Customers’ demand for more sustainable products and
to a more sustainable lifestyle. Our business consists services is expected to further grow and our offering is
mainly of sales of clothing, accessories, footwear, well positioned for this. United by our values, we have an
cosmetics, home textiles and homeware through our ambition to lead the change towards achieving a circular
unique brands and ventures — H&M, H&M HOME, H&M fashion industry with net-zero climate impact, while
Move, COS, Weekday, Monki, & Other Stories, ARKET, being a fair and equal company.
Afound, Singular Society, and our B2B initiative Creator
Studio. We are also the majority shareholder in Sellpy. We are for everyone, but everyone is unique. Therefore,
we always strive to have diverse teams so that we
Our customers are at the heart of every decision we can better understand our customers’ needs and
make, and we are continually working to build long- perspectives. This helps us to create relevant customer
term value-creating relationships with them to create offerings and contribute to a more inclusive world
the best possible offering and inspiring experience. through our products and marketing.
This is why we are continuing to integrate our digital
and physical channels, to create a customer demand-
driven supply chain, and to add new emerging business
models and innovations.
1) The baseline for the sales goal is 2021, while the baseline for reducing
Our culture
and values
H&M Group’s unique company culture As a global company with colleagues from 175
nationalities, we represent many different cultures and
is shaped by our shared values. They
backgrounds. This is an important foundation for us,
define who we are, what we stand for
as it brings a wealth of diverse knowledge, experience
and how we act to create environments and perspectives that enable creativity and innovation.
where people and businesses thrive. Our diversity makes us strong, and we actively work
to create inclusive and welcoming workplaces where
everyone is encouraged to be themselves and respect
At the core of our business is a fundamental respect for others for who they are.
the individual. This applies to all those involved in and
impacted by our business, and includes aspects such as
fair wages, working hours, freedom of association, and
the opportunity to develop and grow. A solid foundation
At the end of the 2022 financial year, H&M
of fair labour standards and social policies across our
Group had approximately 150,000 employees.
operations and supply chain enables good working
Around 75 percent were women and 25
conditions in safe and healthy environments.
percent were men1. In leadership roles, such
as store and country managers, women
Our value-driven way of working dates back to when
represented 75 percent and men 25 percent.
the company was founded and continues to guide
The average number of employees in the
us today. Our strong values help us stay curious and
group, converted into full-time positions, was
engaged, and contribute to an open, dynamic and
106,522, of which 10,447 were employed in
down-to-earth culture where people adapt quickly to
Sweden.
change and collaborate in new ways to deliver great
customer value.
We strive to be a fair, equal and relevant employer. Our
employees are trusted with great responsibility from
the start and are encouraged to seize development
opportunities across our brands and functions. Extensive
internal recruitment makes it possible to explore a
wide variety of roles, and to continue to grow with our
business. Our ambition is for leaders to be role models
— empowering, challenging and supporting everyone to
make a difference.
1) At H&M Group we recognise that gender is not binary and that gender
identities exist between and outside of male and female. We are
investigating how we can adapt our systems to be more inclusive
of all genders, while also complying with local laws and regulations.
Customer in focus
Fashion and design ..................................21
Our brands and business ventures ...................24
Our omni-model .....................................30
— Circular customer journeys ........................31
— Stores ............................................32
— Online ............................................33
— Initiatives for an improved customer experience ...34
Image
Fashion and
design
Our brands and business ventures
want to enable people all around the H&M and Monki have made denim collections
world to express themselves through according to the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s
Jeans Redesign guidelines, and approximately
more sustainable fashion and design.
40 percent of Weekday’s SS23 denim
Each of our brands has a design and assortment meets these guidelines. The jeans
buying function that closely follow are designed to be used more, made to be
made again, and made from safe and recycled
trends and fashion to create inspiring
or renewable materials.
and relevant assortment.
Our long experience in this field, in combination with of our value chain — from designing products that
customer focus and creativity, are core to the process are created to last and made of recycled, organic or
of creating what our customers want, always with other more sustainably sourced materials, to product
the ambition to deliver value beyond the price our development, production and customer use, reuse and
customers pay. recycling.
Our many in-house designers bring their diverse Design is an important first step in developing
backgrounds, perspectives and skills to create products that provide the greatest possible value to
collections based on trend forecasts and analysis our customers. Our aim is to use the design process to
of customer preferences. Their work is enhanced select materials and processes with a lower negative
by technologies such as 3D design and virtual impact that support a long product life — through
showrooms, decreasing the need to make and ship multiple users — before enabling the product to be fed
physical samples, which can save time, resources and back into the supply chain for recycling into new fibres.
reduce environmental impact. In addition, artificial
intelligence (AI) capabilities help to optimise how Our circular product development tool and guide,
many products to make, where to sell them and when. Circulator, makes predictive assessments on aspects
Aligning supply with customer demand is not only such as durability, recyclability, and the environmental
good for our customers, but also for our business footprint of materials and processes, so that our
and the environment. This supports our ambition to product designers can make informed choices and
shift to a more circular business across every part balance potential trade-offs.
We want to drive positive change in the industry,
and we use our size and influence to do so. One
important aspect of this is to support increasing
& Other Stories launched its first capsule
levels of disclosures across our sector. Transparency
collection exploring design for circularity,
enables both accountability and comparability,
and H&M launched its Cherish Waste and
which empowers customers to make more informed
Metaverse collections — all designed using our
decisions about the products they buy. Together
own product development tool Circulator.
with peers and stakeholders, we have a long history
testing and piloting new ways of tracing materials
and collecting and sharing data — with the aim to
Traceability is key to enabling greater
challenge the status quo and highlight areas for
transparency. We continue to scale existing
improvement. We were the first global fashion retailer
initiatives and explore new technologies to
to make its supplier list public in 2013, and today we
further improve the traceability of materials
publish it in accordance with the Transparency Pledge,
across the supply chain, from fibre to finished
covering most of our tier 1 and 2 suppliers. We were
product. In 2022, we scaled our traceability
also one of the first brands to test and pilot industry
programme with TextileGenesis™ to several
comparable impact data on product level to enable
pilots using blockchain technology, such as
customers to choose more sustainable products.
rolling out a project for all man-made cellulosic
fibres and recycled polyester. We initiated
Recent scrutiny of the fashion industry, including
the process for tracing more than 200 million
H&M Group, in relation to sustainability claims,
H&M Group pieces on the TextileGenesis™
highlights the need for us to continue increasing
platform, and approximately 44 million pieces
levels of transparency. Historically there has been a
have so far been fully traced1.
lack of legal guidance and standardisation around
sustainability claims, and we welcome harmonised
legislation and guidance as we take our next steps. Our
intention is to continue providing transparent impact
data to customers and other stakeholders. Increased
transparency makes it easier to identify faults and
opportunities for improvement, which ultimately helps
drive positive change. We will continue to engage with
stakeholders and policymakers to jointly develop an
industrywide standard for product transparency.
Read more in our sustainability disclosure about how
we work to increase transparency.
1) TextileGenesis™ creates article-level traceability from fibre to product
using digital tokens (Fibercoins), ensuring there is no “double-counting”
Our brands and
business ventures
All our brands and business ventures and together they complement and
share the same passion for making strengthen each other — all to offer
great and more sustainable fashion customers unbeatable value and to
and design available to everyone. enable a more circular lifestyle.
Each brand has its own unique identity,
H&M H&M HOME
H&M is a fashion brand offering everyone the H&M HOME is a design-driven interior brand offering
possibility to explore their personal style. H&M always fashion-forward décor and accessories for every
strives to offer the best combination of fashion, quality, room and style. The assortment ranges from high-
price and sustainability with collections for women, quality bed linen and timeless dinnerware to diverse
men, teenagers, children and babies. Customers will textiles, furniture and lighting. Contemporary style
find everything from unique designer collaborations and attention to quality and detail are at the brand’s
and functional sportswear to affordable wardrobe core. By merging modern design and quality with
essentials, beauty products and dazzling accessories. sustainability and affordable prices, H&M HOME
enables interior lovers across the world to create a
H&M has 3,947 stores in 78 markets and is available personal and modern space — a place to feel at home.
online in 58 markets.
H&M HOME was launched online in 2009. Today,
hm.com it is available in most H&M online markets, through
standalone H&M HOME concept stores, and at shop-
in-shops in H&M stores.
H&M Move COS
The new brand H&M Move, launched worldwide in Inspired by contemporary culture, the London-based
August 2022, is embarking on the bold mission to fashion brand is known for iconic wardrobe pieces,
democratise sportswear and get the whole world and elevated essentials, and innovative designs that are
everybody moving, however they move. The brand made to last. Dedicated to quality and sustainability,
offers a more accessible vision of sport by reframing COS takes a bespoke approach to design, creating
it as movement, celebrating the fact that everyone on unique collections that combine function with timeless
the planet is already a mover, moving in a multitude of style. Experimental design details and material
ways. H&M Move aims to equip the world with stylish innovation are frequently revisited to include the latest
and functionable movewear that will support movers sartorial advances and ensure the considered and
of all abilities and skills to move comfortably and responsible use of fibres.
confidently.
COS has 259 stores in 47 physical markets and online
H&M Move offers collections for women, men and stores in 38 markets. The assortment is delivered
kids online and in around 2400 stores worldwide at to additional markets via global selling and is also
dedicated areas within H&M stores. available on external platforms.
hm.com/move cos.com
Weekday Monki
Weekday is a street fashion and lifestyle brand for Monki is a purpose-driven fashion brand that believes
and by the creative generation. Driven by creativity in sisterhood, the power of community and in
and progressive values, fuelled by relevant culture, contributing to a more sustainable fashion industry.
subculture and trending topics, Weekday offers a Monki’s signature collections can be described as
unique retail experience, both online and in-store. Scandinavian cool meets Asian street style, offering
everything from essentials to stand-out pieces, all
Weekday has 54 stores in 15 markets. It ships to made for individual styling. Founded in 2006, Monki
customers in 29 online markets as well as more has been part of H&M Group since 2008.
markets via global selling. It is also available on external
platforms and at selected wholesale partners. The Monki experience is available in 78 stores in 17
markets. Online, Monki delivers to 29 markets and
weekday.com ships to more destinations worldwide via global selling
and external platforms.
monki.com
& Other Stories ARKET
Launched in 2013, & Other Stories offers fashion- ARKET is a modern-day market and lifestyle
loving women a wide range of shoes, bags, destination offering essential products for men,
accessories, beauty and ready-to-wear — all equally women, children and the home, as well as a
important for the whole look. & Other Stories inspires New Nordic vegetarian café. ARKET’s mission is
women to create their own personal style and to democratise quality through widely accessible,
expression. The ateliers design diverse collections well-made durable products, designed to be used
with great attention to detail and quality, always with and loved for a long time. ARKET’s head office and
modern femininity in mind. design studio is in Stockholm. The wide assortment
of fashion, food, scents, beauty and functional home
& Other Stories has 78 stores in 24 markets and online items is curated to simplify good choices and provide
stores in 32 markets. The brand also delivers to more inspiration for a more beautiful everyday life.
markets via global selling as well as external platforms.
The first ARKET store opened in London in 2017
stories.com and today ARKET has 25 stores in 11 markets across
Europe and Asia. ARKET is available online in 31
markets and ships to more via global selling. It is also
available on selected external platforms.
arket.com
Our business ventures
Our business ventures all share the streams and are an important part
mission of exploring and testing to of delivering future growth for H&M
scale businesses based on innovative Group. Examples of our business
models and new partnerships, to ventures are Afound, Singular Society,
increase our ways of engaging with Creator Studio and majority-owned
and creating value for our customers. Sellpy.
Our ventures create new revenue
Afound Singular Society
Launched in 2018, Afound is a digital marketplace Founded in late 2020, Singular Society is a
offering great deals on fashion, beauty, sports and membership-based brand that for a yearly fee offers
interior products from past and present collections its members curated premium home and wardrobe
for women, men and kids. It is currently present in essentials — at the price they cost to make.
seven markets. With the mission to be the destination
for amazing discounts on everything, always, Afound Singular Society is currently shipping to the EU and has
delights its customers with year-round discounts on a flagship store in Stockholm, Sweden.
external fashion and lifestyle brands. By offering items
singular-society.com
that haven’t reached their customer at full price, Afound
gives products a second chance to come to use — and
its customers the opportunity to score a great deal.
afound.com
Creator Studio Sellpy
Creator Studio is a B2B service offering on- Founded in 2014, Sellpy has grown into a broad digital
demand print services. This global platform for the platform for second-hand fashion and other products.
merchandise industry allows external brands and With its vision of enabling everyone to live in a more
content creators to offer quality products by utilising circular way, Sellpy has created a unique service that
a lean production process, international logistics makes it easy for people to buy and sell second-hand
networks, advanced made-to-order digital printing and items.
integrated e-com setup.
H&M Group has been the majority owner of Sellpy
creatorstudio.com since 2019. Following its 2021 expansion into 22
European markets, Sellpy is currently available in 24
markets, including Sweden.
sellpy.com
Our omni-model
Our brands and business ventures We are focusing our expansion on omni-channel
growth — increasingly integrating our digital and
work together to continuously
physical channels so that they interact and strengthen
meet our customers’ ever-evolving
each other, facilitating a seamless, holistic customer
expectations. We want to offer a journey.
convenient and inspiring experience
By engaging our customers in various ways, we are
wherever, whenever and however our
building long-term, value-creating relationships that
customers around the world want to stretch far beyond only purchases of products. Our
meet us — in our stores or on all digital aim to work towards circularity across the entire
value chain — including products, supply chains and
touchpoints such as our websites,
customer journeys — supports our efforts to work for
apps, social media and digital
longevity rather than one-off transactions.
marketplaces.
O
U R N E Y S CI
R
J C
R U
E L
M A
O R
T P
S ASSORTMENT R
U ACCESS PLANNING O
C D
DESIGN & U
R PRODUCT C
A DEVELOPMENT T
L S
U
C USE & CARE
R
I
C
REPAIR &
REMAKE
COLLECT RAW
& SORT MATERIALS
RECYCLE PRODUCTION
S
CIRCULAR
SUPPLY C H
AIN
Circular customer journeys We focus on three areas within our customer-facing
circular business models:
We continue to increase value for our customers by
providing convenient services that enable products to We encourage our customers to explore their
circulate and resources to be kept in use for as long as style and increase the use of their clothes,
possible through scaling initiatives such as reuse and offering inspiration on how to prolong the
USE & CARE
recycling models. life of their garments through care and repair
initiatives.
We test and invest in innovative services that span
the whole product lifecycle, including garment rental, We offer our in-store garment collecting
second-hand, remake, repairs, alterations, garment programme worldwide to our customers.
collecting for textile reuse and recycling and preferred COLLECT Our aim is to ensure the donated products
& SORT
delivery options1 — all to help customers make well- are sorted for the most suitable outcome,
informed choices, while creating new revenue streams including reuse as a product or material, or
and supporting the shift to a circular, net-zero fashion recycling. In 2022, our customers handed in
industry. 14,768 tonnes of textiles.
Read more about our customer-facing circular We offer a range of rental and reuse services
business models in our sustainability disclosure. through which customers can experience
fashion while enabling products to circulate.
ACCESS
For example, we are the majority shareholder
in Sellpy, a digital platform in 24 markets
that offers second-hand fashion and other
products. In addition, our brands have
successfully enabled customers to engage
1) Delivery options emitting less greenhouse gas emissions compared to with second-hand fashion and other initiatives,
Stores
Our stores welcome customers around the world We build, furnish and operate our stores in line with our
every day by being a shopping and fashion destination sustainability goals. We continue to focus on lowering
where people can be inspired and physically energy consumption, and the majority of our stores are
explore and experience our brands, while we build now being equipped with LED lightning. We also focus
relationships and provide them with the relevant on smart design and build, using circular principles to
service. carefully decide on the stores’ interiors — elevating the
shopping experience while working to reduce, reuse,
The role of the store has evolved, and we continue repair, recycle and utilise recycled or more sustainably
to optimise our store portfolio to ensure we have the sourced materials.
right store with the right format in the right place to
meet our customers’ needs. We increase convenience
by digitalising the in-store experience and providing
omni services, and we continuously elevate our
As we continue to grow and integrate physical
assortment to emphasise storytelling about our
and digital channels, we are adjusting the
fashion and the value for money we provide. Stores
number and type of stores in each market to
are touchpoints on our customers’ journeys, and
secure a healthy and relevant portfolio. H&M
customers clearly show that they appreciate our stores
Group's contracts allow around a third of leases
for proximity, availability, and the opportunity to try on
to be renegotiated or exited each year. In 2022,
clothes and create looks that they have seen in digital
we opened 91 (104) new stores and closed 427
channels.
(321) stores1. This resulted in a net closure of
around 336 stores. We had 4,465 stores in 78
Stores are also an important part of the supply chain,
markets at the end of the financial year.
especially with last-mile options, where customers can
Most openings are in growth markets, while
combine shopping with omni services such as click
closures mainly are in established markets.
and collect, pick-up in store and online returns. By
In some markets our products are sold via
adapting how we use our stores and combine different
franchise partners.
service offerings, we aim to always offer a smooth and
flexible shopping experience to keep meeting evolving
customer expectations.
Online
All our brands have well-developed online
Our online and physical stores complement one
operations. H&M has a presence in 58 online
another, strengthening the offer to our customers.
markets. COS, Weekday, Monki, & Other Stories
In addition to increasingly integrating these channels
and ARKET offer global selling, which enables
to offer a truly seamless experience, we are continuing
customers in around 70 additional markets
to enhance the online experience to engage with
to shop online. The exact number of markets
our customers in relevant ways. For example, we
that have this service varies between brands.
have added new digital experiences in some markets
Several of our brands can also be found on
that help our customers discover and browse our
various external marketplaces.
assortment in inspiring ways and engage further
with our offering by creating and sharing their own
styleboards. Also, H&M widened its customer offering
online in some markets to include products from
other brands. Furthermore, we are also improving Our increasing focus on AI and tech is key to
the navigation and search experience to help our becoming a more data-driven business. For
customers find items they love. example, in 2022 we launched a competition
with Kaggle — an online community of data
scientists — to design algorithms for online
product recommendations that enhance the
customer experience.
Initiatives for an improved customer
experience
Customer behaviour is changing rapidly, and we work — #HMxME enables customers to share their own
continually on improvements to offer customers the fashion stories from Instagram while also providing an
best possible experience. Here are some examples of easy way to buy the items.
ongoing initiatives – some are pilots in a few markets,
while others are rolled out in most of our markets: — Rate & Review lets customers rate and review
H&M products.
— H&M customer loyalty programme. Members
benefit from personalised offers and digital services, — RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) means
providing inspiration and a smooth customer that items have a digital tag that can provide precise
experience. Members are also rewarded for information on an item’s availability.
contributing to a more sustainable lifestyle such as
by handing in garments to our garment collecting — Self-service checkouts offer customers a
initiative, choosing a preferred delivery option when convenient purchasing option.
shopping online, and bringing their own bag when
shopping in store. — Instagram. In the US, H&M customers can shop
directly from inspirational images and videos on
— More payment options. Members of H&M can pay Instagram and receive in-app notifications when H&M
now or later through the H&M app, whether shopping releases new collections.
in store or online.
— Rental in store offers customers in selected
— Digital receipts. Customers can receive digital markets the opportunity to rent occasion wear.
receipts in the H&M app in most markets.
— Styleboard. Members can create their own mood
— Visual Search. Image recognition helps customers boards in the H&M app and shop directly from those.
by making recommendations and suggesting potential Customers can also add items to their styleboards
buys based on pictures the customer has taken or from brands outside the H&M universe.
been inspired by.
— Personalised start page offers customers tailor-
— Deliveries. Next-day delivery, express delivery and made inspiration and advice based on individual
preferred delivery options continue to be rolled out in preferences.
more markets.
— Stylestory is a creative tool enabling customers
— Find in Store. On seeing an item online, customers to express and share their favourite styles with other
can use their mobile to find it quickly and easily in the customers, who in turn can discover and shop directly
size they want, in a physical store as well as online. for the styles that inspire them.
— Scan & Buy. Customers can scan the QR code on a — Smart mirrors are being tested in COS fitting
product in store to find and buy the item online in the rooms in the US. The mirrors recognise products
size and colour they want. brought into the room and can offer personalised
product and styling recommendations.
— Click & Collect allows customers to pick up online
purchases in store. — Buy online, pick-up in store allows customers to
shop online from the assortment in a physical store
— In-store online returns let customers return their and pick up the purchase in store.
online purchases in store.
Demand-driven
supply chain
Customer demand-driven production ...............37
Towards recycled, regenerative and responsibly
sourced materials .......................................40
Reducing greenhouse gas emissions .................42
Fair jobs and positive social impacts ..................43
Logistics and distribution ............................44
Packaging ...........................................45
Customer demand-driven
production
We continuously engage with our Our supply chain is built on long-term strategic
partnerships, mutual trust and fair purchasing
customers to meet and exceed their
practices. We maintain a close dialogue with our
needs and expectations, so we can
suppliers through our production offices located in the
offer them unbeatable value with the different sourcing markets. Together, we continually
best combination of fashion, quality, work on improving our products and addressing
environmental and social impacts in our supply chain.
price and sustainability.
Long-term investments and close relationships with
We have invested in Global Startup Award
our suppliers enable an efficient and demand-driven
winner Smartex, and are now using its
supply chain, which can react quickly to trends and
innovative AI technology to identify faults
ever-changing customer demands — all to ensure we
during production. By avoiding unnecessary
deliver the best customer offering and experience
production of faulty yarn and fabric, we
across all sales channels at the right time.
improve resource efficiency.
Our value chain includes the full range of activities
required to plan, design, source, process and manufac-
ture, transport, sell, use, reuse and recycle our products.
The part of the value chain that covers production,
logistics and distribution is our supply chain.
We continue to make long-term investments in our
supply chain to optimise the flow of goods with a focus
on maximising customer satisfaction, while minimising
negative environmental and social impacts. Speed,
availability, cost efficiency and accuracy are decisive
key factors for achieving this. By using AI and data
across the whole supply chain, we can ensure better
precision in our quantification, allocation, pricing,
personalisation and local relevance — contributing
to leaner production and a more sustainable use of
resources.
As a global company it is vital to have an efficient and
demand-driven supply chain that enables us to quickly
adjust volumes, sales channels and markets based on
changes in customer demand and unexpected events.
Our new distribution systems and highly automated
logistics centres are an important part of our work
to reduce lead times and optimise the customer
A large part of our environmental footprint occurs in
the supply chain — particularly in fabric manufacturing
Our new Reverse Supply Chain function
and processes like dyeing and washing, which are
focuses on retrieving garments from our
often energy- and water-intensive. In 2022, we
customers and materials from our suppliers,
launched our Water Strategy 2030, developed with
feeding them back into our supply chain
input from brands, NGOs, water experts and key
as valuable resources. To demonstrate the
suppliers in each region. The strategy focuses on
potential for recycling blended fibres, we
our absolute water use rather than measuring water
have supported the installation of Hong Kong
efficiency, to clearly decouple growth from resource
Research Institute of Textiles and Apparel’s
use. We also continued investing in Colorifix and
(HKRITA) Green Machine at one of our
Alchemie, start-ups that have developed dyeing
Indonesian suppliers. The supplier will use its
processes that use less water, chemicals and energy
own and other companies’ production leftovers
than conventional processes. These processes have
as feedstock for the process.
already been used for some of our collections. We will
continue working with our suppliers and other partners
to improve resource efficiency and protect water
availability, while creating a more circular, resilient and
demand-driven supply chain.
Towards recycled,
regenerative and responsibly
sourced materials
Our industry is heavily reliant on By investing in, developing and scaling production
of innovative materials, recycling innovations,
materials. Therefore, it is vital to
technology and infrastructure, we get greater access
choose, create demand for and
to the materials, which can also mitigate future risks
innovative materials with lower connected to resource scarcity and help reduce
negative impact — alongside working our negative impact on the planet. Our aim with
investments goes beyond achieving our sustainability
to reduce our overall resource use and
goals and supporting the long-term growth of H&M
decouple it from business growth. Group — we look for investments and technologies
that the entire industry can benefit from.
Our goal is for 100 percent of our materials to be
either recycled or sourced in a more sustainable way Two examples of innovative companies we have
by 2030 (in 2022 we achieved 84 percent). A milestone invested in over the years and that keep scaling up
toward this goal is to achieve 30 percent recycled are Renewcell and Infinited Fiber Company — both
materials by 2025. using garment recycling technologies to produce their
materials Circulose® and Infinna™. We were not only one
We have set a new long-term materials vision to of the first companies to start offering garments made
move towards a resilient and circular material sector of these innovative materials, but we have signed a
that stays within planetary boundaries, enhances multi-year agreement to secure future access to them.
livelihoods and thrives on innovations. Our vision is
built on three pillars:
— Recycled: prioritise post-consumer closed-loop
We have invested in Materra™, which has
recycled materials that have the potential to be
developed a technology to grow cotton that
reused and recycled again.
has the potential to increase yields and fibre
quality, while minimising water and pesticide
— Regenerative: use key virgin raw materials
use. Our Circular Innovation Lab worked with
produced using regenerative agricultural practices
Materra to set up a pilot in India, with the first
that help improve soil health and enhance
crop yield harvested at the end of 2022 for use
livelihoods and ecosystems.
in collections by COS.
— Responsible: source materials with the overall aim
to reduce environmental impact, respect human
rights and protect animal welfare. This is the
foundation of all our sourcing decisions.
The ability to recirculate resources again and again,
maintaining quality and minimising impact, is a key
H&M Group was recognised as one of 47
step towards reaching a circular fashion industry.
leading companies out of 292 analysed in
This is why supporting new recycling technologies
the Textile Exchange 2021 Material Change
is a strategic continuation of our in-store collecting
Leaderboard. We were one of 16 companies
initiative for used garments and home textiles, from
identified as leading on circularity and one of
any brand and in any condition, to be reused and
17 companies identified as leading on progress
recycled.
against the Sustainable Development Goals.
Read more about how we work with material choices
in our sustainability disclosures.
Reducing greenhouse
gas emissions
Our climate goal is to reduce our generation added to electrical grids. We have also set
up internal carbon pricing to influence our decisions
absolute scope 1, 2 and 31 greenhouse
about which materials, production processes and
gas emissions (GHG) by 56 percent
transport modes to use, helping us reduce GHG
by 2030, against a 2019 baseline. Our emissions.
long-term goal is to reach net-zero by
Even after the greatest possible reduction of GHG
2040. These goals were verified in
emissions across our value chain, a certain percentage
2022 by the Science Based Targets of unavoidable emissions will remain. Therefore, we
initiative. also invest in solutions to remove carbon dioxide
from the atmosphere. In 2022, we signed a multi-year
carbon removal agreement with Climeworks, which
To reach our goals, we ultimately need to reduce covers the removal of 10,000 tons of carbon dioxide
our overall resource use by creating products our via direct air capture and storage technology. We
customers want, made with lower-impact materials also joined the LEAF Coalition (Lowering Emissions
and processes. We are investing in projects to reduce by Accelerating Forest Finance) — a public-private
GHG throughout our whole value chain. So far, we initiative that focuses on mobilising large-scale
have invested in more than 20 projects focusing on financing to countries committed to making ambitious
increasing our share of more sustainable materials reductions in tropical deforestation.
and renewable energy, phasing out coal, advancing
energy efficiency and enabling carbon removals, By continuing to collaborate, innovate and invest in
where return on investment is measured by GHG transitioning toward a circular fashion industry, we
emission reductions, not financial gain. For example, will further decrease the amount of virgin resources
we launched the Green Fashion Initiative to help our and energy intensive processes we use and thereby
suppliers become more energy efficient and transition reduce our GHG emissions.
away from fossil fuels. We are also a lead investor in
the Fashion Climate Fund, which is designed to drive Read more about how we work with reducing GHG
collective action to tackle supply chain GHG emissions. emissions in our sustainability disclosure.
In January 2022, we stopped onboarding new supplier
factories with on-site coal boilers.
In support of our overall climate goals, we aim to
Our sustainability-linked bond, which was
source 100 percent renewable electricity in both
issued in 2021, continues to provide an
our own operations and our supply chain by 2030.
opportunity for investors to support, among
We have signed agreements with developers of new
other things, an accelerated transition to
solar farms to secure renewable energy for many
recycled materials and reduction of GHG
years to come. This will not only help us reduce our
emissions (scope 1, 2 and 3) in our supply chain.
GHG emissions, but also secure our energy prices
and increase the amount of new renewable electricity
Fair jobs and positive
social impacts
All people involved in our value
chain are essential to our business, Our work on wages in our supply chain was
and it’s our responsibility to respect assessed as “advanced”, the second highest
category, in the Platform Living Wage Financials
their rights, driven by our values and
2022 Annual Report. Besides H&M Group, only
commitment to be a fair and equal
one more retailer in the garment and footwear
company. Our tier 1 and 2 production sector was included in this category. Also, our
work on data collection and impact on the
supply chains alone contribute to the
ground were highlighted as best practice.
employment of around 1.3 million
people. We work to advance the
human rights and working conditions
of everyone working across our value Our business impacts people all over the world, and we
want to ensure that impact is positive. We recognise
chain, while also supporting them to
the interconnectedness between environmental issues
know their rights.
— such as climate change, resource use and water
scarcity — and social impacts affecting equity, health
We focus on supporting decent jobs with fair and livelihoods. Together with our suppliers and other
compensation and benefits in safe, secure workplaces partners, we can accelerate positive impact for millions
free from discrimination, where workers have a voice, of people and their communities — as well as reducing
equal opportunities to develop, and freedom of environmental impacts. At the same time, we can
association is respected. further improve resource efficiency and skill sets, and
help bring about a just transition to a circular economy,
Our work is aligned with the International Labour while creating a demand-driven and resilient supply
Organization’s (ILO) Fundamental Principles and Rights chain.
at Work, and is informed by the ILO’s definition of
decent work, our Human Rights Policy and the UN Read more about how we work with social impact in
Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights, our sustainability disclosure.
among others. We require all business partners to
comply with our Sustainability Commitment and sign
our Code of Ethics, and we continuously conduct
stringent due diligence of our supply chains. As part of
this, we assess not only our salient human rights issues
on an annual basis, but also the long-term risks and
impacts for different parts of our operations and value
chain — such as what a shift to a net-zero and circular
fashion industry could mean for future work across our
value chain.
Logistics and distribution
Our holistic approach to continuously
meeting our customers’ demands In some markets, our online customers can
while ensuring we limit negative choose from a range of preferred delivery
options such as receive and return items using
environmental and social impact
a bicycle delivery service, electric vehicles
also applies to our logistics and
or by foot. This, in combination with using
distribution centres. Together with our biogas, Hydrotreated Vegetable Oil (HVO) and
electric vehicles from the logistics centre,
investments within tech and AI, these
help to reduce GHG emissions compared
centres are an important part of our
to conventional delivery options. We are
omni-model. continually testing and developing new options,
as well as scaling initiatives to more markets.
We are innovating across our global network by
developing new, highly automated logistics centres.
These are designed to create additional capacity,
flexibility and speed between sales channels, enabling We work solely with ocean carriers that are verified
improved availability. For example, in the first half in accordance with Clean Cargo Working Group
of 2023 a new logistics centre in Ajax, Canada is protocol. Air freight makes up less than one percent
scheduled to start its operations, supplementing of our inbound volumes, and we are active members
those recently opened on the US East and West of BSR’s Sustainable Air Freight Alliance, which drives
Coasts. These new highly automated facilities create the environmental agenda to reduce GHG emissions
further capacity for our continued expansion in North and promote responsible transports. We have also
America. created frameworks for the design and construction
of new distribution centres, focusing on employee
We maintain constant focus on optimised transport wellbeing as well as reducing pollution and waste,
solutions to deliver on our customers’ expectations, using renewable energy and supporting biodiversity.
while taking action to reduce our greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions. We select equipment that optimises
efficiency, and fill transport units to their maximum
level to reduce the number of units required. Across
all modes of transport, and with the support of our
transport service providers, we are committed to
tracking and analysing data to measure progress and
secure a future reduction in our GHG emissions.
Packaging
Our products need to be protected We prioritise areas where we are most likely to have
the greatest impact, including reducing unnecessary
during their journeys between our
and problematic packaging like hangers and plastic
suppliers, distribution centres, stores
bags. One of our goals is to make 100 percent of
and customers, to prevent damage packaging from recycled or more sustainably sourced
and waste. We are committed to materials, with a preference for post-consumer
recycled materials. In 2022, we worked to optimise
lowering the environmental impact of
the size and weight of the FSC-certified paper online
our packing, guided by our Circular packaging bags that replaced single-use plastic bags
Packing Strategy, built on the Ellen for all our brands and markets.
MacArthur Foundation (EMF)’s key
Read more about our work toward achieving our
principles: eliminate, circulate and
packing goals in our sustainability disclosure.
regenerate.
Our approach to
sustainability
Sustainability – integrated in our business ...........47
Key sustainability goals ..............................49
Sustainability – integrated
in our business
H&M Group has a long history of Investments in sustainability provide the group with
long-term business opportunities. By building strategic
actively working with sustainability.
partnerships with key stakeholders and growing in
This goes back to our majority owners,
different innovative ways such as circular business
the Persson family, having a long-term models, we can continue to offer our customers
perspective and genuine interest in unbeatable value and access to a more sustainable
lifestyle, while supporting the transition towards a
how we as a company can contribute
circular, net-zero fashion industry.
to a more sustainable fashion industry.
Our vision is to lead the change towards achieving a
circular fashion industry with net-zero climate impact,
Our values and our commitment to offering our while being a fair and equal company. This guides us
customers fashion and quality at the best price in a in how we play our part in tackling climate change,
more sustainable way, have guided us throughout the supporting biodiversity, avoiding natural resource
years, and continue to do so every day. depletion and reducing social inequality. These and
other risks to our business, the planet and people
Sustainability is business critical, not only to fulfil our connected to our value chain are all interlinked, and to
business idea, but also to meet evolving customer achieve our vision, we have defined a wide range of
expectations and to ensure we future proof our detailed strategies, policies and goals that are further
business. Sustainability is therefore an integral part explained in our sustainability disclosure.
of our business, which means that each brand, retail
market, production market and group function works
to drive performance towards both our business
and sustainability goals. The importance and value
of our sustainability work for our business is further
underlined in our 2030 goal, which combine targets
for company growth and profit with greenhouse gas
emissions reduction.
LEAD THE CHANGE
— Scale innovation
— Promote transparency
— Collaborate for industrywide progress
SUPPORT A CIRCULAR BE A FAIR AND
FASHION INDUSTRY WITH EQUAL COMPANY
NET-ZERO CLIMATE IMPACT
— Become net-zero across our value chain by 2040, — Have a positive impact on all
operating within planetary boundaries people across our value chain
— Have a net positive impact on biodiversity — Support and promote inclusion
and diversity in everything we do
— Scale circular models and systems for our
products, supply chains and customer journeys
RESPECT HUMAN RIGHTS
Key sustainability goals
We have set ambitious sustainability Packaging
goals, which to the greatest possible
2030: Make 100 percent of packaging from recycled
extent are based on latest science, or other more sustainably sourced materials, with a
preference for post-consumer recycled materials.
best practice and knowledge. To
achieve them, we need to work closely
Achievement 2022: 85 percent
together with our suppliers and
2025: 25 percent reduction in plastic packaging
partners.
(baseline 2018)
Collaboration helps us progress towards our ambitions Achievement 2022: 44 percent
faster than we could alone. It also aids innovation and
industrywide progress, as we learn from each other
Water
and work towards shared goals. Some of our key goals
and our performance against them are presented 2030: Reduce absolute total freshwater use by 30
in this report, and more detailed information can be percent (baseline 2022).
found in our sustainability disclosure.
2025: Reduce absolute total freshwater use by 10
percent (baseline 2022).
Climate
2030: Reduce absolute scope 1, 2 and 31 greenhouse Achievement 2022: Above goals for 2025 and
gas (GHG) emissions by 56 percent (baseline 2019). 2030 are part of our new water strategy. Therefore,
our achieved result in 2022 relates to our previous
Achievement 2022: 8 percent reduction in scope 1 strategy. We reduced the relative production water
and 2 emissions and 7 percent reduction in scope 3 usage by 38 percent, compared to 2017 baseline
emissions (from 2019 baseline). (driven by a 21% water recycling rate and 21%
improvement in relative water efficiency).
Materials and resources
2030: 100 percent of our materials in commercial
goods to be either recycled or other more sustainably
sourced materials.
Achievement 2022: 84 percent
2025: 30 percent of our materials in commercial
goods to be certified recycled.
Achievement 2022: 23 percent
Innovation and
collaboration
Innovation ...........................................51
Collaboration and partnership .......................52
Innovation
We see an urgent imperative and Through our investment arm H&M CO:LAB, we
support start-ups with capital and knowledge. Today,
a huge opportunity to continue
we have one of the industry’s largest portfolios.
changing how we operate and to
Although all our investments are long-term, they have
partner with others in our industry to in a short time created significant value both financially
accelerate systemic change. and operationally — for example by improving
customer experience and enabling scaling and
commercialisation of recycled and more sustainably
We use our size and influence to initiate and accelerate sourced materials.
the transformations required such as identifying,
testing, investing in and attempting to scale innovative
materials and technologies that have the potential
to drive radical shifts in how we make and remake
We have a long-standing collaboration with
our products, and how our customers can access
Fairbrics, winner of H&M Foundation’s Global
and experience fashion. All this will further improve
Change Award and now part of our investment
the resilience of our business and supply chain and
arm’s portfolio. The company has developed a
is crucial for the journey towards a net-zero, circular
technology to capture carbon dioxide, which is
fashion industry. Our investments in innovations also
converted into the building blocks for polyester.
support our commitment to respect human rights
This material has already been used in a proof-
by contributing to more favourable environmental
of-concept t-shirt for H&M and is currently
conditions for communities and people.
under development for H&M Move pieces.
Our work includes exploring new solutions and
opportunities through our innovation hub H&M Group
Laboratory, and we test new business models and
partnerships to scale through our business ventures.
To complement our innovations and ideas within the
company, we also find, support and invest in innovative
start-ups. This enables us to drive innovation and
explore more opportunities faster than what would
be possible without these strong relationships with
leading entrepreneurs. H&M Foundation’s Global
Change Awards — the world’s largest innovation
challenge — finds, supports and scales early-stage
ideas. Our Circular Innovation Lab supports proof-of-
concept projects to test and evaluate technologies’
suitability for H&M Group, with the purpose to scale
and ease integration into our organisation and supply
chain.
Collaboration and
partnership
Long-term strategic collaborations We welcome an open and constructive dialogue
and collaboration with others within and outside our
and partnerships are crucial not only
industry. By exchanging diverse perspectives, we are
to accelerate innovation and reach
challenged to do better and stay relevant so that we
our goals, but also to tackle complex can keep providing our customers with unbeatable
and interconnected challenges in value and new ways to enjoy fashion. Dialogue drives
transparency, which is a prerequisite for accountability.
the industry that require a shared
By engaging with policymakers, we also help shape
commitment to progress. a legislative environment that will support a more
sustainable fashion sector of the future.
We collaborate with our business partners, experts,
Read more about our memberships and collaborations.
innovators, challengers, customers, communities,
policymakers and many more. Our stakeholders also
represent or are themselves rights holders, and the
actions we take as a business have the potential to
impact their human rights positively or negatively.
Statutory
annual report
Corporate governance report 2022 ..................55
Administration report ................................73
— Statutory Sustainability Report ...................86
— TCFD climate risk analysis ........................103
Financial reports ....................................108
— Group income statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .108
— Consolidated statement of
comprehensive income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .108
— Group balance sheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
— Group changes in equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
Image
— Group cash flow statement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113
— Parent company income statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114
— Parent company statement of
comprehensive income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114
— Parent company balance sheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
— Parent company changes in equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116
— Parent company cash flow statement . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
Notes to the financial statements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
Signing of the annual report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 141
Auditor’s report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .142
Corporate governance
report 2022
H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB
Sound corporate governance ensures External and internal governance
H&M is governed both by external regulations and
that companies are managed as
internal control documents.
sustainably, responsibly, and efficiently
as possible in the interests of their Examples of external regulations are:
shareholders.
— Accounting legislation including the Swedish
Bookkeeping Act and Annual Accounts Act
At H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB (H&M) this means — MAR — the EU Market Abuse Regulation
compliance with external regulations and that, values, — Nasdaq Stockholm Rules for Issuers
global policies, and guidelines are important tools. — The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
The Code of Ethics, which is signed by all colleagues — The Swedish Companies Act
who interact with business partners, clearly states the — The Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the
approach of H&M when doing business. H&M operates Code)
in many markets that have different challenges, and
where laws, environmental requirements and social Examples of internal control documents:
conditions may differ. These varied contexts underline
the importance of acting consistently and with a — Articles of association
strong ethical compass. — Code of Ethics
— Communications Policy
H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB is a Swedish public limited — Financial Policy
company. H&M’s class B share is listed on Nasdaq — Human Rights Policy
Stockholm. — Insider Policy
— Our Way
H&M has applied the Swedish Corporate Governance — Sustainability Commitment
Code (the Code) since 2005. The Code is based on — Tax Policy
the principle of “comply or explain”, which means — The board’s rule of procedure including instructions
that companies applying the Code may deviate from for the CEO and audit committee
individual rules provided they give an explanation of — Whistleblowing Policy
the deviation, describe the chosen alternative and
provide the reasons for the deviation. The code is H&M’s corporate governance is furthermore based
available at corporategovernanceboard.se. on the company’s values, which encompass a
sound, simple, straightforward, cost-conscious,
This report, which covers the financial year 1 entrepreneurial corporate culture that focuses on
December 2021 to 30 November 2022 — hereafter teamwork, belief in people and constant improvement.
referred to as the 2022 financial year — was prepared Sustainability is part of H&M’s business idea and is
in accordance with the Code and the Swedish Annual integrated into all parts of the business.
Accounts Act by the company’s board of directors. It
has been reviewed by the company’s auditors. For more information read page 86.
Ethics, transparency, and risk management the AGM. Attendance has been very high at all the
As a global company, it is of the utmost importance meetings. The CEO, CFO and chief accountant
for H&M to always act ethically, transparently, and also attend all the meetings. Generally, one or two
responsibly in all parts of the business — from departments or brands are invited to each meeting
collaborating with our suppliers to meeting with to give a status presentation concerning what their
customers. Through good purchasing routines and particular function or brand is working on. These
close cooperation with suppliers, the company’s presentations act as a complement to the CEO’s
products should always be produced with the greatest status reports and provide opportunity for more in-
possible consideration for people and environment. depth discussions concerning specific areas of the
H&M’s risk management and internal control processes operations. At each board meeting the chair of the
ensure we are compliant, and act on things that makes audit committee also give a summary of the matters
a difference, throughout the organisation. The board addressed by the audit committee at its most recent
of directors and the audit committee receive regular meeting within areas such as accounting, audit,
feedback from the organisation concerning these security, tax, internal control, and risk, as well as
processes. various new regulations and legislation.
H&M’s risks are reviewed centrally on a quarterly Further reading
basis with each brand and every central function. Read more about H&M’s corporate governance at
The quarterly meetings are conducted in order to hmgroup.com/corporategovernance.
ensure each listed risk has an action plan to minimise
impact and is kept at an acceptable risk level. This risk Here you will find, among other things:
management work also provides continuous input to
the company’s long-term commercial decisions. — Articles of association
— Information about the board of directors, CEO,
Responsibility for management and control is shared auditors and audit committee
between the company’s shareholders, the board, the — Information about standards and policies
audit committee, and the CEO. The board’s rule of — Information and material from previous AGMs and
procedure states how this work is to be distributed Extraordinary General Meetings
between the board, the board’s audit committee and — Information on the nomination committee
the CEO. The board is ultimately responsible for the — Previous corporate governance reports
company’s organisation and administration and the — Risks and uncertainties
CEO is responsible for ongoing management of the
business, with regular feedback to the board. H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB has chosen to have the
corporate governance report as a separate document
Board members and 2022 meetings to the annual report, in accordance with chapter 6
The board of directors has eight members elected section 8 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The
by the annual general meeting (AGM), four women information that must be provided under chapter
and four men, and three employee representatives 6 section 6 items 3-6 of the Annual Accounts Act
and three deputies for these appointed by employee is included on page 80 of the H&M Group Annual
organisations in accordance with Swedish law. In total, and Sustainability Report for 2022 and is therefore
the board has 14 members – eight women and six men. not included in this corporate governance report. In
accordance with chapter 6 section 9 of the Annual
The composition of the board exhibits breadth and Accounts Act, the company’s auditors have issued a
diversity, with the board members’ different areas statement on the corporate governance report that
of expertise complementing each other well. Their can be found on page 72.
experience in areas such as retail, entrepreneurship,
fashion, digitalisation, AI, advanced analytics and
automation, sustainability and communication forms a
good basis for deep and nurturing discussions with the During the financial year 2022 H&M did not deviate
CEO and management. from the Code.
During 2022 the board held 11 board meetings,
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN SWEDEN As a result, shareholders can pose questions to the
Listed companies in Sweden must be aware of the auditors at the AGM irrespective of the size of their
following aspects of corporate governance: shareholding.
— The nomination committee plays a key role and, — The option of having different classes of shares
in contrast to the Anglo-American system, its — usually known as “class A / B / C” etc. shares,
members are appointed by a company’s largest usually with differing voting rights, and sometimes
shareholders. It is the nomination committee’s task with a difference in rights to dividends — has been
to propose the size of the board of directors and present in the Swedish Companies Act for a long
to propose who is to be elected to the board at the time and is widely used.
general meeting of shareholders. Board members
are elected by all those who vote at the general — By law, employees have the right to appoint
meeting. In practice, therefore, the nomination employee representatives to the board of larger
committee has a decisive influence over who is companies. All board members are invited to the
elected to the board. The nomination committee same meetings and receive the same information,
also provides the general meeting with a proposal and the employee-elected members have the same
of board fees and a proposed auditor. Instructions voting rights as members elected by the general
for how members of the nomination committee are meeting. Board fees are paid only to members
appointed are decided by the general meeting. elected by the general meeting.
— Swedish law states that board members are H&M’s corporate governance structure
appointed to represent the interests of all H&M’s corporate governance structure encompasses
shareholders. Hence if a large shareholder group shareholders, the board of directors, the audit
has proposed a new member via the nomination committee, the CEO, the nomination committee, the
committee, that board member represents the auditors, the executive management team, business
interests of all shareholders and not only the areas organised by brand, employees, and employee
interests of the shareholder(s) that nominated her/ organisations. H&M’s shareholders ultimately decide
him. the company’s direction since the shareholders at the
general meeting appoint the board of directors and
— For many decades, Swedish enterprise in general the chair of the board. Proposals for the composition
has favoured the CEO and other board members in of the board, board fees and the election of auditors
a company elected by its general meeting owning are prepared in advance by the nomination committee.
shares in the company. This is seen as a guarantee The board in turn appoints a CEO to take care of day-
that the interests of the board are aligned with to-day administration. The CEO appoints members of
the interests of all shareholders with respect to the executive management team within H&M’s matrix
a positively increasing share price and that there organisation. The board includes three employee
is consensus regarding the company’s risks and representatives, each of whom has a deputy, and all
opportunities. of whom are appointed by their respective employee
organisations. The board appoints an audit committee
— Neither the Swedish Corporate Governance Code from among its members, which deals with accounting
nor the Swedish Companies Act impose any and auditing matters on an ongoing basis and is the
restrictions on the age of board members or how main channel of communication between the board
long members may sit on the board or prescribe and the auditors. Each year the auditors’ report their
any time limit for when an independent board findings to the board of directors and to the AGM.
member ceases to be independent of the company
or its principal owners.
— The Swedish Corporate Governance Code
stipulates that at least one of the company’s
auditors is to attend the AGM and it is common
practice in Sweden for a company’s chief auditor
to attend the AGM. The auditors are deemed to be
1. SHAREHOLDERS AND ANNUAL GENERAL — Discharge of the members of the board and the
MEETING CEO from liability
The shareholders of H&M have the final decision on — Amendments to the articles of association
the company’s governance. Shareholders vote at the — The election of the auditor
general meeting to adopt the articles of association, — The adoption of the income statement and balance
which determine what the business will focus on, and sheet
to appoint the board of directors and its chair, whose — The distribution of the earnings for the past
task it is to administer the company’s affairs on behalf financial year
of the shareholders. The shareholders at the general — The resolution on composition of and instructions
meeting also elect auditors, decide on the composition for the nomination committee
of and instructions for the nomination committee. — Guidelines for remuneration to senior executives
The general meeting is thus the company’s highest Articles of association
decision-making body and is the forum in which According to the H&M articles of association, H&M’s
shareholders exercise their right to decide on the board of directors is to consist of at least three and no
company’s affairs. H&M’s annual general meeting more than 12 members elected by the general meeting
(AGM) is held once a year, in late April or early May. and no more than the same number of deputies. The
AGM decides the exact number of board members
The date and venue are announced in conjunction and which individuals are to be elected to the board.
with H&M’s nine-month report as well as at hmgroup. Board members are elected for the period until the
com. The notice of the meeting is published four to close of the next AGM. The general meeting also
six weeks before the meeting as a press release and decides on amendments to the articles of association.
in the newspaper Post- och Inrikes Tidningar and at
hmgroup.com. Publication of the notice is announced Annual general meeting 2022
by an advertisement placed in the newspapers H&M’s AGM 2022 was held on 4 May as a digital
Dagens Nyheter and Svenska Dagbladet. Shareholders meeting in accordance with §§ 14 and 15 of the
registered directly in the register of shareholders who Swedish Act (2022:121) on temporary exemptions to
have given notice of their attendance on time, are facilitate the holding of general meetings of companies
entitled to participate in the meeting and vote for the and associations. This meant – among other things –
total numbers of shares that they hold. Shareholders that the shareholders were able to exercise their voting
who cannot be present in person may be represented rights at the general meeting by participating digitally
by proxy. (online) or by postal voting. A digital tool allowed those
attending the meeting remotely to ask questions.
Shareholders wishing to have a particular matter
considered by the meeting may submit a written The company appeared on video from a venue at
request to the board at least seven weeks before the H&M’s head office. A total of 909 shareholders were
meeting. An email address to H&M is also provided represented at the meeting, representing 87.8 percent
in the press release for the notice of the meeting, for of the votes and 75.0 percent of the capital.
shareholders who wish to submit their questions in
advance. All the material belonging to the meeting, The main resolutions passed were the following:
including the minutes of the meeting, is available on
the company’s website in both Swedish and English. — The lawyer Sven Unger was elected as chair of the
Extraordinary general meetings can also be held when meeting.
there is a particular need to do so. — Balance sheets and income statements for H&M
and for the group were adopted.
Shareholders’ decision-making powers — Dividend was to be paid to the shareholders in two
Among other things, the general meeting makes instalments, with record date for the first payment
decisions concerning: on 6 May 2022 (SEK 3.25 per share) and record date
for the second payment on 11 November 2022 (SEK
— The election of board members and the chair of the 3.25 per share). The remainder of the company’s
board earnings was to be carried forward.
— Board fees, including the compensation paid to — The board members and the CEO were discharged
— The number of board members elected by the representing 19,2 (17,8) percent of the votes. In addition,
meeting to serve until the close of the next AGM the family privately own 36,400,289 class B shares.
was set at eight, with no deputies. This means that as of 30 November 2022, Stefan
— The following ordinary board members were re- Persson and family privately and via Ramsbury Invest
elected: Stina Bergfors, Anders Dahlvig, Danica AB represent 77.3 (75.9) percent of the votes and 53.4
Kragic Jensfelt, Lena Patriksson Keller, Christian (50.5) percent of the total number of shares. Ramsbury
Sievert, Erica Wiking Häger, Niklas Zennström and Invest is thus formally the parent company of H & M
Karl-Johan Persson. Hennes & Mauritz AB. Ramsbury Invest AB is owned
— Karl-Johan Persson was re-elected as the chair of by Stefan Persson and family, and primarily by Stefan
the board. Persson. Karl-Johan Persson is also a shareholder in
— The board fees proposed by the nomination Ramsbury Invest AB.
committee were approved as follows: chair of the
board SEK 1,800,000; board members elected A class A share has greater voting power at the
by the AGM SEK 775,000; members of the audit company’s general meetings. All the shares have
committee an additional SEK 200,000; and the the same dividend entitlement and right to share in
chair of the audit committee an additional SEK the company’s assets. Since the company was first
280,000. listed on the stock exchange in 1974, all the class A
— Deloitte AB was appointed as the auditor until the shares in H&M have belonged to the founding Persson
close of the 2023 AGM. Auditors’ fees to be paid family. This is usual when family-owned businesses
based on approved invoices. are floated on the stock exchange, since it allows the
— Resolution on composition of and instructions for founding family to have a controlling interest. The
the nomination committee were approved. division into class A and class B shares is set out in
— A resolution was passed, which authorised the H&M’s articles of association, providing transparency
board to make decisions concerning purchase of to those considering buying shares in H&M.
own Series B shares on as many occasions as it
deems appropriate in the period up to the 2023 Annual general meeting 2023
AGM for a total amount not exceeding SEK 3 billion. H&M’s AGM 2023 will be held on Thursday, 4 May
— A resolution on the amendment of the articles of 2023. To register to attend the 2023 AGM, see the
association was passed. notice of the meeting at hmgroup.com/agm.
Votes and capital represented at H&M’s annual general 2. NOMINATION COMMITTEE
meeting: The nomination committee prepares information that
will be used as a basis for decisions at the general
YEAR % OF VOTES % OF CAPITAL
meeting concerning election of the board of directors,
2017 83.7 66.6
chair of the board, auditors and chair of the annual
2018 82.3 63.6
general meeting, fees to the board and auditors, as
2019 84.6 68.4 well as instructions for the nomination committee. The
2020 86.7 72.7 nomination committee’s proposal for the composition
of the board exhibits diversity and breadth as regards
2021 87.8 74.9
expertise, experience, background and gender
2022 87.8 75.0
balance. It also takes into consideration the company’s
stage of development and future focus.
Number of shareholders and ownership structure
At the end of the financial year, H&M had 254,495 Before each annual general meeting the nomination
shareholders. The total number of shares in H&M committee’s report is available to read as a separate
is 1,655,072,000, of which 194,400,000 are class A document at hmgroup.com/corporategovernance.
shares with ten votes per share and 1,460,672,000 are The composition of the nomination committee is
class B shares with one vote per share. based on the instructions for the composition of the
nomination committee adopted at the 2022 AGM.
H&M’s largest shareholder is Stefan Persson and The nomination committee is, in accordance with the
family, who via Ramsbury Invest AB hold all the class instruction, appointed based on the principle that the
A shares, which represent 57.1 percent of the votes, nomination committee is to consist of the chair of the
shareholders in terms of voting rights, as recorded in in the board’s work and decided not to propose any
the register of shareholders on the last banking day changes to the composition of the board.
in August. In autumn 2022 the nomination committee
thus consisted of: The nomination committee’s proposal to the 2022
AGM was therefore the re-election of all the sitting
— Karl-Johan Persson, chair of the board board members: Stina Bergfors, Anders Dahlvig,
— Stefan Persson, Ramsbury Invest AB Danica Kragic Jensfelt, Lena Patriksson Keller, Karl-
— Lottie Tham Johan Persson, Christian Sievert, Erica Wiking Häger
— Joachim Spetz, Swedbank Robur Fonder and Niklas Zennström; and the re-election of Karl-
— Karin Eliasson, Handelsbanken Fonder Johan Persson as chair of the board.
The nomination committee meets the requirements The nomination committee judged that the proposed
of the Code regarding the independence of members. board complied well with section 4.1 of the Code,
Stefan Persson chairs the nomination committee, which the nomination committee applies as its
in accordance with the rules in the nomination diversity policy. The policy aims to ensure that the
committee’s instructions which state that the chair proposed board exhibits diversity and breadth of
of the nomination committee shall be the member qualifications, experience and background, as well
representing the largest shareholder unless the as gender balance, and H&M’s board has had a good
nomination committee appoints another person. The gender balance for many years. The board members
nomination committee unanimously decided that in proposed, and subsequently elected by the meeting,
view of H&M’s ownership structure, Stefan Persson consisted of four women and four men. The board thus
in his capacity as principal shareholder is the natural achieves the long-term ambition communicated by the
choice to chair H&M’s nomination committee. Swedish Corporate Governance Board, which wants
owners to speed up developments towards a share
Work of the nomination committee in preparation of around 40 percent for the less well represented
for the 2022 AGM, including description of diversity gender on the boards of major listed companies.
policy for the board of directors
Before the 2022 AGM the nomination committee The proposed board composition was considered to
held two meetings at which minutes were taken more than satisfy the requirements made of expertise
and was also in contact at other times. As a basis and experience, taking into account the company’s
for its work to analyse the composition of the board operations and future development. The proposal
ahead of the 2022 AGM, the nomination committee was considered to meet the applicable requirements
studied the report by the chair of the board on the well as regards the independence of board members,
work of the board of directors and also met on one their stock market experience and their expertise in
occasion with CEO Helena Helmersson. The board’s accounting and auditing.
work has functioned well over the course of the year.
The information from the chair of the board, along In its proposal to the AGM the nomination committee
with interviews conducted with the board members carefully reviews each board member’s expertise,
elected by the general meeting, provided a basis for experience, contribution to the work of the board
the nomination committee’s work on its proposal over the past year, potential conflicts of interest etc.
to the 2022 AGM regarding the composition of the To decide whether a member is independent, an
board. The board members’ different competencies overall assessment is to be made of all circumstances
complement each other well, which contributes to a that might cause the member’s independence of
good whole. In view of the pandemic and the fact that the company and its management to be questioned.
other external factors remained challenging, the board In rule 4.4 the Code states at least seven different
has had considerably more meetings than normal. All circumstances that are to be considered here. At least
the members attended all the board meetings and two of the board members who are independent
showed great commitment, both at and between the of the company and its management must also be
meetings. The nomination committee’s judgment independent of the company’s major shareholders.
ahead of the 2022 AGM was therefore that the board To decide whether a board member is independent,
works well together as a team and, in view of this, the the extent of the member’s direct and indirect
nomination committee chose to prioritise continuity relationships with the major shareholder is to be
is employed by or is a board member in a company At the 2022 AGM the accounting firm Deloitte AB
that is a major shareholder is not to be considered (Deloitte) was elected as auditor of H&M for a one-
independent. As regards the composition of the year period of office, i.e., until the close of the 2023
audit committee, section 7.2 of the Code states that AGM. Authorised public accountant Didrik Roos from
the majority of the committee’s members are to be Deloitte holds the main responsibility for the audit.
independent of the company and its management. At
least one of the board members who are independent As previously, the 2022 AGM resolved that the
of the company and its management must also be auditors’ fees should be paid based on invoices
independent of the company’s major shareholders. submitted and approved. The fees invoiced by the
The chair of H&M’s audit committee, like all the other auditors over the past two financial years are reported
members of the committee, is independent of the in note 10 of the Annual and Sustainability Report for
company and its management. Two of the three 2022.
members are also independent of the company’s
major shareholders. There is nothing in the Code Deloitte is a member of a global network used
stating that the chair of the committee must be for auditing assignments for most of the group’s
independent of major shareholders. companies and meets H&M’s requirements with
respect to competence and geographical coverage.
Between the 2022 AGM and the end of the financial The auditors’ independent status is guaranteed partly
year the nomination committee held one meeting at by legislation and professional ethics rules, partly by
which minutes were taken and was also in contact the accounting firm’s internal guidelines and partly
at other times. In autumn 2022 the nomination by the fact that non-auditing assignments must be
committee began its work, starting with information approved in advance by the audit committee. Didrik
from the chair of the board concerning how well Roos conducts auditing assignments for Boozt AB,
the work of the board has functioned during the Systembolaget AB, and Tele2 AB.
year. During the autumn the nomination committee
conducted interviews with board members elected The auditors attend all meetings of the audit
by the general meeting. It was established that the committee. The board meeting held in January 2022
board and its work are functioning well. In the period was attended by Didrik Roos to notify the board
up until the proposals to the 2023 AGM are presented of the scope, focus, significant considerations and
the nomination committee will discuss the size and conclusions of the 2020/2021 audit.
composition of the board based on such factors
as expertise, experience and the outlook for the In addition to this involvement, the auditor meets
company, the election of a chair of the board and of a regularly with the chair of the board, the audit
chair for the general meeting, fees for board members, committee’s chair and other members, the executive
principles for the nomination committee and the management and other key individuals. The auditor
election of auditors. The nomination committee’s work also takes part in the AGM, reporting the conclusions
in preparation for the AGM in May 2023 is not yet drawn from the audit.
complete; more information will be presented before
and at the 2023 AGM. Alongside its mandate as elected auditor, Deloitte has
also carried out related tasks such as limited assurance
3. AUDITORS of the Sustainability Disclosure. In addition, Deloitte
The auditors, who are independent and appointed has assisted with other consulting services, primarily
by the shareholders at the AGM, scrutinise H&M’s tax advice. Deloitte has internal processes to ensure
Annual and Sustainability Report, consolidated its independence before these tasks are begun. The
financial statements, accounts, and corporate audit committee also has a process for approving non-
governance report, and examine whether these auditing services in advance, before such assignments
have been prepared in accordance with current laws are begun. The audit committee evaluates the auditor
and recommendations. The auditors also scrutinise annually to gain assurance that the auditor’s objectivity
the management of H&M by the board and CEO, and independence cannot be questioned.
and review compliance with the guidelines on
remuneration to senior executives adopted by the
AGM.
4. BOARD OF DIRECTORS Number of board meetings
The task of the board of directors is to manage H&M’s During the financial year H&M normally holds six
affairs in the interests of the company and all its regular board meetings, one of which is the statutory
shareholders, and to safeguard and encourage a good board meeting. Extraordinary board meetings are
corporate culture. This means that the board has the held when the need arises. The CEO attends all board
overall responsibility for the company’s administration, meetings, except on the occasion when the CEO’s
taking a long-term, sustainable approach with a focus terms of employment are being discussed. The CEO
on the customer offering and growth. reports to the board on the operational work within the
group and ensures that ahead of each board meeting
In addition to laws and recommendations, the work the board is given relevant and objective information
of the board is regulated by the board’s order of on which to base its decisions.
procedure which contains rules on the distribution
of work between the board, its committees and the The CFO and chief accountant also attend the board
CEO as well as on financial reporting, investments and meetings in order to provide financial information. The
financing. The order of procedure, which also includes board is assisted by a secretary who is not a member
the procedure for the audit committee, is updated as of the board. During the year, 11 board meetings were
needed but is established at least once a year. held. This is more than usual but is explained by the
operations having been affected by very challenging
Composition of H&M’s board and independence of geopolitical and macroeconomic circumstances,
its members resulting in significantly more board meetings than in
The board members are elected by the shareholders a normal year. As in previous years, attendance levels
at the general meeting, normally at the AGM and for at the board meetings were very high. For details of
the period up to and including the next AGM. Since the meeting attendance by each member see the table on
2022 AGM the board has consisted of eight ordinary page 63.
members, with no deputies, as well as three employee
representatives and three deputies for these positions. Work of the board in 2022
Only the employee representatives and their deputies H&M’s board meetings are generally structured as
are employed by the company. Since the 2022 AGM shown below. This is supplemented by one or more
the board has consisted of the following members business presentations, e.g., by the heads of functions,
elected by the general meeting: Karl-Johan Persson brands or regions. The following are usually reviewed
(chair), Stina Bergfors, Anders Dahlvig, Danica Kragic at each board meeting:
Jensfelt, Lena Patriksson Keller, Christian Sievert, Erica
Wiking Häger and Niklas Zennström. Tim Gahnström, — Minutes of the previous meeting
Ingrid Godin and Louise Wikholm are the regular — CEO’s status report and report by CFO
employee representatives, with Hampus Glanzelius, — Strategic matters
Agneta Gustafsson, and Margareta Welinder as their — Feedback from latest audit committee meeting
deputies. For more facts about H&M’s board members — Financial reporting such as interim report, full-year
see pages 69-71. report, and annual and sustainability report
— Any other business
Board members are required to devote the time and
attention that their position on the board demands. As the geopolitical and macroeconomic situation
New members receive introductory training that was very challenging in 2022, the effects of this on
includes meetings with the heads of the various brands the H&M group’s operations formed a key part of the
and functions. board’s work during the year; among other things,
resulting in the decision to wind down the business in
The composition of the board during the year met the Russia and action to manage the high level of inflation.
independence requirements set out in sections 4.4 Such challenges combined with the repercussions
and 4.5 of the Code. This means that a majority of the of the pandemic led to discussion of matters such
board members elected by the general meeting are as the customer offering and its pricing, the supply
independent of the company and its management. A chain, sustainability, tech and communication. A global
majority of the board members are also independent programme to reduce costs and improve efficiency
of the company’s major shareholders. within the organisation was introduced. Decisions were
COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD AND ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2022
SHARES HELD
YEAR FEES BOARD AUDITING SHARE- BY RELATED
NAME ELECTED INDEPENDENT1 INDEPENDENT2 (SEK)3 MEETINGS4 COMMITTEE HOLDINGS5 PARTIES
Shareholder
Karl-Johan Persson, in Ramsbury
Chair 2020 Yes No 1,700,000 11/11 12,136,289 Invest AB6
8,000 and
Stina Bergfors 2016 Yes Yes 650,000 11/11 1,000 6,0007
Anders Dahlvig 2010 Yes Yes 825,000 11/11 4/4 17,510
Danica Kragic Jensfelt 2019 Yes Yes 650,000 11/11 2,500 700
1,200 and
Lena Patriksson Keller 2014 Yes Yes 650,000 11/11 9,4508
19,000 and
Christian Sievert 2010 Yes No9 875,000 11/11 4/4 81,000 2,40010
Erica Wiking Häger 2016 Yes Yes 825,000 11/11 4/4 75011
Niklas Zennström 2014 Yes Yes 650,000 11/11 72,700
Ingrid Godin,
employee rep. 2012 11/11 60
Louise Wikholm,
employee rep. 2021 8/11
Tim Gahnström,
employee rep. 2021 4/1112
Agneta Gustafsson,
deputy employee rep. 2022 9/11
Hampus Glanzelius,
deputy employee rep. 2021 7/11
Margareta Welinder,
deputy employee rep. 2007 4/11
1) Independent of the company and company management in accordance with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code.
2) Independent of major shareholders in the company in accordance with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code.
3) Fees as resolved at the 2021 annual general meeting. This means that the fees related to the period until the next AGM, i.e. for the period 6 May 2021 to 4 May 2022. The amounts were paid out
after the 2022 AGM.
4) Attendance via technology is equated with attendance in person.
5) There is no outstanding share- or share price-related incentive programme for the board of directors.
6) Ramsbury Invest AB owns 194 400 000 class A shares and 653,093,901 class B shares as of 30 November 2022.
7) 8,000 shares held through Stina Bergfors’s company SCEBE Holding AB and 6,000 shares held by spouse.
8) 1,200 shares owned through Lena Patriksson Keller’s private company Verdani Holding AB. 9,450 shares held by spouse and children.
9) Christian Sievert is not considered independent of Ramsbury Invest AB since Ramsbury Invest AB is a major shareholder in a company of which Christian Sievert is CEO.
10) Shares held by related parties: 19,000 shares held through Christian Sievert’s company Whitechris Industri AB and 2,400 shares held by spouse and children. Supplementary disclosure: in
addition to Christian Sievert’s shareholding shown above, Christian Sievert holds 9,000 H&M shares via a pension plan.
11) 750 shares owned through Erica Wiking Häger’s company Erica Wiking Häger Advokataktiebolag.
12) Tim Gahnström temporarily left the board during a couple of months. He was re-elected as employee representative by the union and member of the board again during late autumn.
also made concerning changes to the organisation to primarily concerns areas such as accounting, IFRS 16
fit future business models. effects, audit, tax, customs duties, internal control, risk
and various new regulations, legislation and directives.
Other examples of subjects discussed during the year All significant risks are then discussed at a subsequent
were cybersecurity, the store portfolio, future ways of board meeting. At four of the year’s meetings the
working etc. board goes through interim financial reports before
they are published and at the January meeting the
Examples of the brands/functions of the business that board discusses the annual and sustainability report,
presented their work to the board during the year are: with the auditor also reporting on the year’s audit.
the H&M brand, Sellpy, supply chain, business tech The board also meets with the company’s auditors
and others. At each board meeting the chair of the without the CEO or other representatives of executive
audit committee reports to the board on what the management being present.
As every year, in 2022 the board took various for the coming year. No member of executive
decisions. These included deciding on a SEK 3 billion management is present when this is discussed.
share buyback programme based on authorisation
from the annual general meeting, a proposed dividend The board continually evaluates its work, and the
of SEK 6.50 per share, an updated finance policy, chair of the board is in regular contact with the board
the proposed remuneration report and decisions members between meetings as part of the board’s
concerning the financial statements, as well as work and its evaluation process. Among other things
deciding on a cost and efficiency programme, an this evaluation covers working methods, the working
investment plan, a growth plan and targets. climate, wishes and the main focus of the board’s
work. It also focuses on access to and the need for
At the board meeting held in January 2022 the board specialist expertise within the board. The evaluation
of directors resolved that the company is to double is used as a tool for how the board is to operate
its sales while at the same time halving its carbon and additionally forms a basis for the work of the
footprint by 2030. Profitability is to exceed 10 percent nomination committee.
over time1. The H&M group’s goal to increase sales by
10-15 percent per year with continued high profitability 5. AUDIT COMMITTEE
remains a long-term target. The audit committee monitors the company’s financial
reporting, including monitoring the effectiveness of
Since H&M does not have a separate review function the company’s internal control and risk management.
(internal audit function) for work on internal control, but The committee’s work includes handling auditing
has instead established its own model for managing topics and financial reports published by the
the company’s risk and internal control (see pages company. The auditors attend the meetings of the
66-68), once a year the board assesses the need for audit committee to report on their scrutiny of H&M’s
a separate internal audit function. In 2022 the board annual report and financial statements, including the
again reached the conclusion that the present model consolidated financial statements.
for monitoring internal control is satisfactory.
The audit committee reviews and monitors the
Ahead of the AGM the board presented a impartiality and independence of the auditor and
remuneration report for 2021 in accordance with the regulates which assignments the accounting firm may
Swedish Companies Act and the Remuneration Rules conduct for H&M in addition to the audit. The audit
issued by the Swedish Stock Market Self Regulation committee annually receives a written assurance of
Committee. The remuneration report describes how independence from the auditor stating which services
the guidelines for remuneration within H&M adopted the accounting firm has provided to H&M during
at the 2020 AGM were applied in the 2021 financial the financial year in addition to the audit. The audit
year. The remuneration report for 2021 is available at committee also assists the nomination committee with
hmgroup.com/annual-general-meeting-2022. any proposals to the AGM concerning the election of
auditors.
H&M has no remuneration committee since the
board of directors deems it more appropriate for the The audit committee consists of three board members
entire board to carry out the tasks of a remuneration — two with expertise in accounting or auditing and
committee, as is entirely in accordance with the third with expertise in commercial law. All the
requirement 9.2 of the Code. It is the board that members are independent of the company and its
prepares the proposed guidelines for remuneration management. A majority of the members are also
to senior executives that are presented at the AGMs, independent of the company’s major shareholders.
and it is the board that decides on the CEO’s salary in The audit committee is appointed annually by the
accordance with the latest guidelines adopted at the board of directors at the statutory board meeting
AGM. The board continually assesses the CEO’s work held in conjunction with the AGM. Since the statutory
and once a year discusses this matter separately in meeting held in conjunction with the 2022 AGM,
conjunction with the setting of the CEO’s remuneration the audit committee has consisted of chair Christian
Sievert and members Anders Dahlvig and Erica Wiking
Häger. The committee held four meetings at which
1) The baseline for the sales goal is 2021. The H&M group’s goal is to reduce its carbon
minutes were taken during the 2022 financial year.
footprint in absolute figures by 56 percent by 2030 (baseline 2019) in accordance with the
Deloitte attended the minuted audit committee matters, the customer offering, pricing strategy, sales
meetings to provide debriefs on the auditing work. The and profitability, sustainability matters, marketing,
meetings were also attended by, among others, the expansion, digital development, and development and
CFO, the chief accountant, and the head of corporate further integration of the store and online channels.
governance. Minutes from the committee’s meetings The CEO reports to the board on H&M’s development
were distributed to all board members. and makes the necessary preparations for taking
decisions on matters such as investments and
During the year the audit committee addressed the expansion. The role of CEO includes contact with the
following matters, among others: financial market, the media, and the authorities.
— The company’s financial reporting, including interim Helena Helmersson, born in 1973, has been CEO
reports, the corporate governance report and since 30 January 2020. In 1997, Helena Helmersson
annual report. joined H&M as a controller in the buying department,
— Compliance with the group’s internal control and after which she worked in various roles in buying
risk management processes and review of the and production. Helena Helmersson was head of
overall risk analysis for the group. sustainability for five years and subsequently head of
— Information provided by the following functions and production based in Hong Kong. For just over a year
departments on their work: People & Organisational prior to becoming CEO, she worked as COO (chief
Development, Security, Growth, Accounting/ Tax, operating officer) with responsibility for expansion,
Supply Chain and Business Tech. logistics, production, IT and advanced data analytics/
— The transfer pricing model, tax matters and matters artificial intelligence, as well as insights and analytics.
relating to customs.
— Follow-up on previous discussions on privacy, By the end of the financial year 2022, Helena
including GDPR. Helmersson held 19,070 shares in H&M. She also held
— Follow-up on H&M Group policies. 300,000 call options issued by Ramsbury Invest AB,
— Information provided by Deloitte on the audit plan, with each option providing the right to buy one class B
the scope of the audit and the results of scrutiny share in H&M during the 12 months following a three-
carried out. year period from the agreement date of 7 October
— Review of the auditors’ independence and 2020.
impartiality. The audit committee agreed it was
clear which assignments Deloitte had taken on 8, 9. ORGANISATION AND MANAGEMENT
in addition to auditing and found no reason to H&M has a multi-brand matrix organisation with the
question the accounting firm’s impartiality. following brands: the H&M brand which includes the
H&M HOME brand, and the Portfolio Brands consisting
The audit committee has established a process to of COS, Weekday, Monki, & Other Stories and ARKET.
approve in advance any non-auditing services carried The group also consists of Business Ventures, which
out by the auditors. H&M also uses consulting services includes among others Afound, Creator Studio,
from other accounting firms and tax advisors. Singular Society, and majority owned Sellpy. Each
brand has its own organisation and managing director,
6. EMPLOYEE ORGANISATIONS and most of the brands have their own local or regional
Under Swedish law, employees in large companies sales organisations. Centrally, there are also several of
have the right to appoint employee representatives group functions that support each brand to capitalise
with deputies to the company’s board. These are on the benefits across shared areas, so that each
appointed via employee organisations (trade unions). brand and country works according to central policies
The trade unions appoint three board members and and guidelines. The CEO is responsible for day-to-day
three deputies to the H&M board. management of H&M and appoints the members of
the executive management team. As of 30 November
7. CEO 2022, the executive management comprised 15
The CEO is appointed by the board of directors individuals, five of whom are women. The cost and
and is responsible for the daily management of efficiency programme that was initiated during autumn
the company as directed by the board. This means 2022 also involves reviewing the organisation. This is
that, among other things, the CEO must focus on reflected in the executive management team after the
see https://hmgroup.com/about-us/corporate- they work. The control environment consists primarily
governance/company-management/. of ethical values and integrity, expertise, management
philosophy, organisational structure, responsibility
In addition to the CEO, the executive management and authority, policies and related guidelines and
team consists of the CFO, the person with instructions, as well as routines.
responsibility for the H&M brand, the person with
responsibility for Portfolio Brands, the person with It is particularly important that management
responsibility for Business Ventures, the person with documents such as internal policies, guidelines and
responsibility for Business Tech and the CTO reporting manuals exist in significant areas and that these
to that role, and the heads of the following group provide the employees with solid guidance. The Code
functions: Strategy & Transformation, Growth, People of Ethics, signed by all employees doing business with
& Organisational Development, Sustainability, Supply business partners, is an ethical policy that permeates
Chain, Communications, The Laboratory, and the the entire company. It describes the way in which
Group Strategy Counsel. Those responsible for other employees should act within the company and in
group functions are appointed by the CFO. business relations with suppliers. The document “Our
way” summarise how values, policies and guidelines
The matrix organisation provides a combination of come together with the intention to ensure business
central and local perspectives on leadership and is carried out in an ethical, responsible, sustainable,
entrepreneurship. and transparent way. “Our way” is intended for all
colleagues within all brands and functions of H&M, as
The regional and local sales organisations are well as external stakeholders. Read more about “Our
responsible for daily retail operations in their region way” at hmgroup.com/about-us/our-way/.
and country and take collective responsibility for all the
regional and local support functions, whose work is H&M’s internal control structure is based on:
based on instructions from the central group functions.
— The division of accountability between the board of
Internal control directors, the audit committee, and the CEO, which
The board of directors is responsible for the is clearly described in the board’s formal rules of
company’s internal control, the overall aim of which procedure
is to safeguard the company’s assets and thereby — Regular reporting from the executive management
its shareholders’ investment. Internal control and team and the audit committee to the board,
risk management are part of the board’s and the according to established routines
management’s control and follow-up responsibilities, — The company’s organisational structure
with the purpose of managing the business in the — Values, guidelines, policies, and manuals
most appropriate and effective manner possible — to — Control activities, checks and balances, analysis,
ensure reliable financial reporting and compliance and reporting
with applicable laws and regulations. This description
of H&M’s internal control and risk management for H&M has a matrix organisation, which means that
financial reporting has been prepared in accordance those responsible for the joint group functions are also
with chapter 6 section 6 of the Swedish Annual responsible for the efficiency and effectiveness of
Accounts Act and section 7.4 of the Code. work within their function at each brand. Each brand
has its own organisation and managing director, and
H&M uses the internationally recognised COSO all the brands have their own local or regional sales
framework as a basis to maintain and develop its organisations.
internal control. The COSO framework is made
up of five components: control environment, risk Internal control is evaluated annually by the relevant
assessment, control activities, information and group function, which checks that its function in each
communication, and monitoring. country is working according to the prescribed policies
and guidelines. Stores are checked by internal store
CONTROL ENVIRONMENT auditors.
The control environment forms the basis of internal
control and includes the culture that the board and All subsidiaries within H&M have the same structure
accounts. This simplifies the creation of appropriate Internal control measures in the Business Tech
routines and control systems, which in turn facilitates function also include internal control on systems
internal control and comparisons between the various relating to financial reporting. These financial systems
companies. There are detailed instructions for the are reviewed by an external party in cooperation with
store staff that control daily work in the stores. Many H&M.
other guidelines and manuals are also available
within the group. In most cases these are drawn INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION
up in the central departments at the head office in Policies and guidelines are of particular importance
Stockholm and then communicated to the respective for accurate accounting, reporting and provision of
departments in regional and country offices. Each information, and define the control activities to be
central department regularly reviews its guidelines and carried out.
manuals to see which need updating and whether new
guidelines need to be developed. H&M has a communications policy providing guidelines
for communication with external parties. The purpose
RISK ASSESSMENT of the policy is to ensure that all disclosure obligations
Operational and financial risks are continuously are met and that the information provided is accurate
analysed by all brands and group functions. This and complete.
process of risk review and assessment identifies
the systems, methods and controls that are in place Financial communication is provided via:
to minimise any impact of the risks. For the most
significant issues, the suggested risk acceptance or — The Annual and Sustainability Report
mitigation is evaluated quarterly in collaboration with — Interim reports, the full-year report and quarterly
the corporate governance function. sales reports
— Press releases on events and circumstances that
An updated climate risk analysis according to the may impact the share price
guidelines issued by the Task Force on Climate-related — H&M’s website hmgroup.com
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) was carried out during
2021, see page 103. The company’s first TCFD analysis MONITORING
was conducted in 2019. In 2022, the company’s central functions assessed
internal control within their respective functions
At the end of 2022 the group’s main risks were in sales countries, based partly on general issues
summarised to the audit committee and were and partly on department-specific issues. Due to
subsequently discussed by the board. the ongoing impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic on
internal control, all functions continued to operate with
For a description of H&M’s operational risks, see reduced travel to countries to carry out internal control
the administration report on pages 76-78. For a and instead undertook control activities remotely to
description of risks within financial reporting, see the the degree required.
administration report on pages 78-79 and note 2,
Financial risks, on pages 120-121 of the Annual and This internal control assessment work resulted in
Sustainability Report for 2022. a plan of action for each central function, defining
areas for improvement to further strengthen internal
CONTROL ACTIVITIES control — not only in respect of each country,
There are a number of control activities built into but also for the central function itself. The central
processes to support business efficiency and accurate functions also followed up on assessments made in
financial reporting. These control activities, which the previous year. The way in which H&M executes
aim to prevent, find and correct inaccuracies and internal control is considered to be firmly established
non-compliance, can exist at all levels and in all parts within the organisation, providing an aid and an
of the organisation. Within H&M, control activities instrument that the central functions can use to ensure
include effective control and analysis of sales statistics, their respective departments in sales countries and
account reconciliation, monthly accounts and financial regions are working in line with company guidelines.
reports. The assessment of internal control also allows
each sales country and region to provide valuable
regarding potential areas for improvement. Another Stockholm, March 2023
important part of the internal control work is the
feedback to regional and country management The Board of Directors
provided by the central function.
More information on H&M’s corporate governance
Within the production organisation, additional control work can be found at hmgroup.com/corporate
and monitoring activities are brought together in the governance. The next two pages contain information
internal Routine Handbook for Production, which helps about the board members.
to ensure the company does business in an ethical and
transparent way. Most of the activities described in the
Handbook are monitored monthly at a regional level
and every other month at a global level.
Internal store auditors perform annual checks at a
subset of the stores to identify strengths, weaknesses
and corrective actions.
The board of directors and audit committee
continually evaluate the information provided by the
executive management team, including information
on internal control. The audit committee’s task of
monitoring the efficiency of internal control carried out
by the management team is of particular interest to
the board. This work includes checking that steps are
taken in response to any shortcomings detected and
suggestions made during assessments by the central
departments and internal store auditors, as well as
by external auditors. This monitoring work maintains
awareness of the importance of effective internal
control and supports continuous improvement within
the group.
INTERNAL AUDIT
In accordance with section 7.4 of the Code, during
the year the board assessed the need for a specific
internal audit process. The board concluded that
H&M’s present model of monitoring internal control is
the most appropriate for the company. In the board’s
opinion this model — which the central departments
such as Finance & Accounting, Growth, Supply Chain
(including Logistics and Production), Business Tech,
Communications, and Security apply in the subsidiaries
— as well as the work carried out in stores by local
security department representatives, are in line with
the work performed in other companies by an internal
audit department. The board therefore deemed that
there was no need for an internal audit department.
The issue of a specific internal audit department will
be reviewed again in 2023.
The board
KARL-JOHAN PERSSON STINA BERGFORS ANDERS DAHLVIG CHRISTIAN SIEVERT
Chair of the board. Board member. Board member and member of the Board member and chair of the audit
audit committee. committee.
Born 1975. Born 1972.
Born 1957. Born 1969.
Primary occupation Primary occupation
Chair of the board of directors of Entrepreneur and board assignments. Primary occupation Primary occupation
H&M. Board assignments. CEO of AB Max Sievert.
Other significant board
Other significant board assignments Other significant board Other significant board
assignments Member of the boards of Carlssons assignments assignments
Member of the boards of Ramsbury Skola, Handelsbanken and Tele2. Chair of Inter IKEA Holding BV and Member of the board of AB Max
Invest AB, the GoodCause Foundation Stina is also involved in the Prince member of the board of Oriflame SA. Sievert and of the boards of portfolio
and the H&M Foundation. Daniel Fellowship at the Royal companies of AB Max Sievert; also
Swedish Academy of Engineering Education member of the board of AB Anders
Education Sciences (IVA). MSc in business administration, Löfberg.
BA in business administration from Lund University, 1980 and MA from
the European Business School, Education the University of California, Santa Education
London. MSc in business administration Barbara, 1982. MSc in business administration from
and honorary doctorate from Luleå the Stockholm School of Economics,
Professional experience University of Technology. Professional experience 1994.
2001–2004 CEO of European 1983–1993 Various roles within IKEA
Network. Professional experience in Sweden, Germany, Switzerland and Professional experience
2005–2009 Operational executive 1998–2000 TV3 MTG Sales. Belgium. 1994–1997 Consultant, Bain &
roles within the H&M group, 2000–2004 Media strategist OMD 1993–1997 Managing Director of Company, Stockholm and San
including within expansion, business Nordics. IKEA UK. Francisco, USA.
development and new business. 2005–2008 CEO of Carat Sverige AB. 1997–1999 Vice president of IKEA 1997–2003 Investment manager and
2009–2020 CEO of H&M. 2008–2013 Country director for Europe. partner at Segulah.
2020– Chair of the board of H&M. Google and YouTube in Sweden. 1999–2009 President and CEO of 2003–2013 CEO/managing partner
2014–2020 Founder and CEO, and IKEA. at Segulah.
later business development, at United 2013–2014 Partner, Segulah.
Screens. 2014– CEO of AB Max Sievert.
ERICA WIKING HÄGER NIKLAS ZENNSTRÖM LENA PATRIKSSON KELLER DANICA KRAGIC JENSFELT
Board member and member of the Board member. Board member. Board member.
audit committee.
Born 1966. Born 1969. Born 1971.
Born 1970.
Primary occupation Primary occupation Primary occupation
Primary occupation CEO of venture capital company Executive chair at branding and Professor of computer science at
Partner at the law firm Mannheimer Atomico, which focuses on fast- communications agency Patriksson KTH Royal Institute of Technology
Swartling since 2009 and chair of growing tech companies, and Group AB. conducting research in the fields of
Mannheimer Swartling’s Corporate involved in Zennström Philanthropies, computer vision and robotics. The
Sustainability & Risk Management which supports organisations Other significant board aim of the research is to use sensors
practice group. particularly associated with climate assignments to build future systems that interact
change, social entrepreneurship, the Member of the boards of Elite Hotels, with people and their environment in
Other significant board Baltic Sea environment and human Wanås Art Foundation, Jeanerica a natural way.
assignments rights. AB and Maria Nilsdotter AB. Lena
Chair of the board of Mannheimer is also involved in the Prince Daniel Other significant board
Swartling Advokatbyrå AB. Other significant board Fellowship at the Royal Swedish assignments
assignments Academy of Engineering Sciences Board member at FAM, SAAB and the
Education Member of the boards of Atomico, (IVA). Institute for Future Studies; member
Master of Laws from Uppsala Zennström Philanthropies, Farmdrop, of the Royal Swedish Academy of
University, LL.M. from Harvard Law Rovio, Orbital Systems and Lilium. Education Sciences and the Royal Swedish
School in the US. Design and marketing at Parsons Academy of Engineering Sciences
Education School of Design in New York and at (IVA).
Professional experience Dual degrees in business the American University in London.
1994–1995 Acting lecturer in civil law, administration and engineering Education
Uppsala University. physics from Uppsala University. Professional experience MSc in mechanical engineering
1995–1997 District court service, 1993–1996 Buying & product from the Technical University of
Sollentuna District Court. Professional experience development at H&M. Rijeka, Croatia. Danica was awarded
1997–1998 Law clerk, Svea Court of 1991–1994 Product manager, Tele2 1996–1998 Global communications a PhD in robotics by KTH Royal
Appeal. AB, Stockholm. manager, J.Lindeberg. Institute of Technology, Stockholm
1999–2000 Corporate counsel, 1994–1996 Director of access 1999– CEO and later executive chair, in 2001. Honorary doctorate
Corechange Inc., Boston, USA. network, Unisource Voice Services Patriksson Group AB. from Lappeenranta University of
2000–2008 Associate, Mannheimer AB, Stockholm. Technology in Finland.
Swartling. 1996–1997 Director of internet
2009– Partner, Mannheimer services, Tele2 Danmark A/S, Professional experience
Swartling. Copenhagen. 2008– Professor of computer
1997–2000 Director of internet science, conducting research in
services, Tele2 Europe ASA, the fields of computer vision and
Luxembourg/Amsterdam. robotics, at KTH Royal Institute of
2000–2002 CEO and founder, Kazaa, Technology in Stockholm.
Amsterdam.
2001–2003 CEO and founder, Joltid,
Amsterdam.
2002–2007 CEO and founder, Skype,
London.
2007– CEO and founder, Atomico,
London.
INGRID GODIN AGNETA GUSTAFSSON LOUISE WIKHOLM TIM GAHNSTRÖM
Employee representative, on the H&M Deputy employee representative, on Employee representative, on the H&M Employee representative, on the H&M
board since 2012. the H&M board since 2022. board since 2021. board since 2021.
Born 1959. Born 1969. Born 1980. Born 1979.
Employed since 2002. Employed since 1988. Employed since 2014. Employed since 2015.
Current position Current position Current position Current position
Warehouse worker, Eskilstuna DC. Sales advisor, H&M Jönköping. Project manager, Customer Solution architect (Business Tech).
Activation & Marketing H&M.
HAMPUS GLANZELIUS MARGARETA WELINDER
Deputy employee representative, on Deputy employee representative, on
the H&M board since 2021. the H&M board since 2007.
Born 1977. Born 1962.
Employed since 2011. Employed since 2000.
Current position Current position
Business controller, Monki. Omni buyer, H&M.
Auditor’s statement
AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
To the general meeting of the shareholders in H &
M Hennes & Mauritz AB (publ) corporate identity
number 556042-7220
Engagement and responsibility
It is the board of directors who is responsible for the
corporate governance statement for the financial
year 2021-12-01 - 2022-11-30 on pages 55-71 and that
it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual
Accounts Act.
The scope of the audit
Our examination has been conducted in accordance
with FAR’s standard RevR 16 The auditor’s examination
of the corporate governance statement. This means
that our examination of the corporate governance
statement is different and substantially less in
scope than an audit conducted in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing and generally
accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe
that the examination has provided us with sufficient
basis for our opinions.
Opinions
A corporate governance statement has been prepared.
Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6
the second paragraph points 2-6 the Annual Accounts
Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the
same law are consistent with the annual accounts and
the consolidated accounts and are in accordance with
the Annual Accounts Act.
Stockholm, March 23, 2023
Deloitte AB
Didrik Roos
Authorized Public Accountant
Administration report
The board of directors and the chief executive officer variety of trends and styles at various price points
of H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB (publ), 556042-7220, within fashion, beauty, accessories and homeware.
domiciled in Stockholm, Sweden, hereby submit their
annual report and consolidated accounts for the The H&M group’s aim is to make fashion and design
financial year 1 December 2021 to 30 November 2022, accessible to everyone in a way that is good for the
hereinafter referred to as the 2022 financial year. Any business, while reducing negative impacts on people
references made to “H&M”, “H&M Group”, “the H&M and the planet. The brands are working to shift to
group” and “the company” in this administration report more circular business models for their products
refers hereinafter to H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB (publ). and services, and are increasing the percentage of
recycled and other more sustainably sourced materials
BUSINESS in their collections.
The H&M group is a customer-focused, creative,
value-driven, responsible fashion and design company. Each brand has its own design and buying function
All the group’s brands share a passion to make great consisting of people with diverse backgrounds,
fashion and design available to everyone in a more experiences and skills, which is key to producing
sustainable way. The business consists mainly of sales relevant and inspiring collections for their particular
of clothing, accessories, footwear, cosmetics, home customer group. H&M’s design and buying function
textiles and homeware to consumers. Sales take creates its collections centrally in Stockholm, while
place through digital and physical channels, which are COS — for example — has its design and buying
increasingly being integrated to provide customers function in London. Afound departs from this model.
with a smooth and inspiring experience regardless of It is a marketplace for products from brands’ previous
where, when and how they choose to meet us — in and current seasons — both external brands and the
stores, on the brands’ websites, in digital marketplaces H&M group’s own — which are discounted to provide
or via social media. In some markets, the brands’ a new opportunity to attract customers. Creator
products are sold via franchise partners. Studio in turn is a B2B service offering on-demand
print services, enabling external brands and content
The group consists of the brands H&M, H&M HOME, creators to utilise the H&M group’s supply chain to
H&M Move, COS, Weekday, Monki, & Other Stories produce their own merchandise for sale. Majority-
and ARKET. In addition, the company has a number owned Sellpy is an e-commerce platform for second-
of business ventures, with the mission to test and hand sales with a business model that makes it easy
scale businesses based on new business models and for customers to buy and sell used items. Through
partnerships, to engage with customers in new ways its investment arm H&M CO:LAB, the group invests
and to create added customer value. The ventures in start-ups to drive entrepreneurship related to, for
drive new revenue streams and are an important example, circularity in the fashion and retail industries
part of delivering future growth for the H&M group. to support the group’s sustainability goals. For more
Examples of the company’s business ventures are information see pages 14-29.
Afound, Singular Society, Creator Studio and majority-
owned Sellpy. Comment on results
The company’s decision to wind down the business in
Each of the group’s brands has its own unique identity. Russia, which was an important and profitable market,
during the year. The hikes in raw materials and freight The company is monitoring developments in Ukraine
costs combined with a historically strong US dollar closely. The safety of colleagues and customers
resulted in extensive cost increases for purchases always has highest priority. The hope is to be able to
of goods. Rather than passing on the full cost to the reopen the H&M group’s operations in the country as
customers, the company chose to strengthen its soon as this is possible.
market position further. On top of this there were
increased energy costs as well as a one-time charge Direction
for the cost and efficiency programme that was In 2022, the H&M group continued to work according
initiated at the end of the year. to its business plan, which aims to deliver long-term
profitable growth in a more sustainable way. The
Information concerning exposure to Russia, Belarus business plan is based on the company’s ongoing
and Ukraine transformation work and is illustrated by a number of
On 24 February 2022 the H&M group paused sales in objectives to which the company’s sustainability work
Ukraine as a consequence of Russia’s invasion. and digital transformation contribute. These objectives
are to continue improving the customer offering for
On 2 March 2022 all sales in Russia and Belarus all the brands, to build long-term and value-creating
were also paused. On 18 July 2022 the H&M group customer relationships, to offer an inspiring experience
announced that it had decided to begin winding down with integrated digital and physical channels, to adapt
the business in Russia in a responsible manner. the supply chain so that it is efficient and based on
demand, and to add more revenue streams based
A one-time cost of around SEK 1.8 billion has been on new emerging business models and innovations.
charged to earnings for the financial year in respect In line with the H&M group’s goal of a strong capital
of the wind-down. The one-time cost is expected structure with good liquidity and financial flexibility,
to have a negative cash flow effect of around SEK 1 the objectives are designed to support sound finances
billion in total, mainly in 2023. By 30 November 2022 while enabling continued freedom of action for growth
all of the H&M group’s 172 stores in Russia had been and investments. Moving successfully towards these
permanently closed. The total financial effect on objectives is expected to result in long-term, profitable
the H&M group’s full-year results compared with the growth while at the same time reducing the company’s
previous year was SEK 3.7 billion before tax. climate impact. By 2030 at the latest, the H&M group
aims to double sales while at the same time halving its
The business in Belarus, where there were three greenhouse gas emissions. Profitability is to exceed
stores, has also been wound down. 10 percent over time.1
FIVE YEAR SUMMARY
FINANCIAL YEAR 2022 2021 2020 20192 20182
Net sales, SEK m 223,553 198,967 187,031 232,755 210,400
Operating profit, SEK m 7,169 15,255 3,099 17,346 15,493
Operating margin, % 3.2 7.7 1.7 7.5 7.4
Profit after finacial items, SEK m 6,216 14,300 2,052 17,391 15,639
Operating cash flow per share, SEK 14.84 26.96 15.65 17.51 12.86
Return on equity, % 6.4 19.2 2.2 23.3 21.4
Equity/assets ratio, % 27.9 33.4 31.3 47.4 49.3
Average number of employees 106,522 107,375 110,325 126,376 123,283
For definitions of key performance measures see page 147.
1) The baseline for the sales goal is 2021. The H&M group’s goal is to reduce its greenhouse group’s target to increase sales by 10-15 percent per year with continued high profitability
gas emissions in absolute figures by 56 percent by 2030 (baseline 2019) in accordance remains a long-term target.
Expansion through integrated channels leases to be renegotiated or exited each year. For
Expansion is taking place with a focus on omnichannel 2023 the plan is to open around 100 new stores and
sales. Customers want to be able to shop and be close around 200 stores, making a net decrease of
inspired where, when and how they choose – in around 100 stores. Most of the openings will be in
the stores, on the brands’ own websites, on digital growth markets, while the closures will mainly be in
marketplaces and on social media. The optimisation established markets.
of the store portfolio is continuing in parallel, meeting
customers’ needs in interaction with the digital Employees
channels. The H&M group’s business is characterised by a
fundamental respect for the individual. The company
New store markets in 2022 for H&M were North is committed to treating all employees equally, with
Macedonia, Ecuador, Kosovo, and via franchise respect and dignity, and to empowering them to be
Cambodia, Costa Rica and Guatemala. The company who they want to be. Everyone working for the H&M
is accelerating its expansion in the North and South group should expect fair compensation and benefits
America region, with a focus on Latin America. In 2022 in healthy, safe and inclusive workplaces free from
Singapore became a new market for & Other Stories. discrimination, with the right to freedom of association.
ARKET opened its first stores in France and Finland.
The H&M group’s values have guided employees
In the 2022 financial year the H&M group opened 91 since the day that the company was founded, and
(104) stores and closed 427 (321) stores, making a net continue to support the business today. The group’s
decrease of 336 (217) stores. 175 of the stores closed culture, values, and empowering leadership are
were in Russia and Belarus, where the business was actively and consciously integrated throughout the
wound down during the year. The group had a total of entire organisation. This supports the mindsets and
4,465 (4,801) stores as at 30 November 2022, of which behaviours needed to stay ahead and remain relevant,
288 (273) were operated by franchise partners. The and helps attract and develop people who have the
breakdown of the stores is as follows: 3,947 H&M, 259 right competences and ambition to grow with the
COS, 78 Monki, 71 & Other Stories, 54 Weekday, 25 company.
ARKET.
A constantly changing world and new customer
In 2022 H&M opened online in Colombia, Peru, Uruguay behaviour continue to increase the complexity of
and Serbia, and via franchise in Israel. H&M was also the retail business. To stay competitive and meet
launched on Shopee in Thailand. COS was launched increased customer demands, the company continues
online in Australia, via franchise in Thailand and via with its transformation work, which encompasses
Zalora in the Philippines. Monki opened on About You, all parts of the company and includes, among other
and also on Zalora in Singapore and Malaysia. & Other things, enhanced digitalisation, a competence
Stories launched on Zalora in Singapore, Malaysia shift within the tech organisation, simplifying the
and the Philippines, on YOOX and on HURR in the UK. organisational structure, new ways of working, and
ARKET and COS were launched on YOOX, with COS further integration across brands and functions.
also opening on Nordstrom and Breuninger.
At the end of the financial year, the H&M group had
H&M is scheduled to open its first store in Albania approximately 150,000 employees. The average
during the first half of 2023. Ecuador will become a number of employees in the group, converted into full-
new online market for H&M at the start of 2023. COS time positions, was 106,522 (107,375), of which 10,447
will launch in Mexico and Arket is scheduled to open (10,540) were employed in Sweden. Of this average
in Estonia in 2023. & Other Stories will open on The number of employees, around 75 percent were
Iconic in Australia in 2023. women. Of those in positions of responsibility within
the company, such as store managers and country
The H&M group is continuing to renegotiate a managers, 75 percent were women.
large number of leases as part of the company’s
store optimisation, which also involves rebuilds and EVENTS AFTER THE CLOSING DATE
adjustment of the number of stores and of store space During the first quarter of 2023 the H&M Group has
to ensure the best store portfolio in each market. acquired the controlling interest in Sellpy, which
quarter. For more details, see the three-month report part of the customer experience. Customers are
for 2023. looking for a smooth, simple and inspiring experience
in which stores and online interact and enhance each
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES other. In recent years the H&M group has therefore
The H&M group has an entrepreneurial approach made substantial investments to provide this. As the
to business development. Launching new initiatives competitive landscape is redrawn by new business
and business ventures makes it necessary to accept models and players, profitability in the industry has
business risks to a degree. been impacted by increased competition.
Operational risks include the business risks together The Covid-19 pandemic has made the group’s brands
with events in the outside world which affect a certain and functions work hard to manage challenges
sector, market or a brand in the group. Financial risks related to cost levels, supply chain and the customer
are related to the use of economic funds and financial experience, while still delivering without compromising
resources. on the business idea of the group’s brands: fashion
and quality at the best price in a more sustainable
Operational and financial risks are continually analysed, way. For the H&M group the importance of having
and risk acceptance or mitigation is evaluated good risk mitigation plans alongside issue and crisis
quarterly by all brands and group functions for management capacity has been accentuated by the
the most significant group risks, together with the pandemic.
corporate governance function.
Reputational risk
Evaluation of the business impact determines whether As one of the world’s leading fashion companies,
an action is to be taken to reduce the likelihood of a the H&M group’s brands attract great interest and
risk, and if so, to what extent. Business decisions also are constantly in the spotlight. To safeguard and
determine the extent to which the consequences of a manage its brands, it is important that the H&M group
risk should be mitigated. continues to be developed and run according to its
values, which are characterised by strong business
There are external risks and uncertainties affecting the ethics.
H&M group that are related to the shift in the industry,
fashion, competitors, logistics resources, information It is of utmost importance that the H&M group
security and cybersecurity, sustainability issues, lives up to the high ambitions set out in its policies
weather, macroeconomics and geopolitical events, and guidelines on business ethics, and that anyone
pandemics, foreign currencies, taxes, and various involved in the business has good knowledge and
regulations and ordinances. insight into the procedures for the production of its
products. It is also crucial that the H&M group can
A description of the H&M group’s operational and reach its sustainability goals and ambitions. Accurate,
financial risks is given in the sections below, with more transparent and reliable communications can prevent
detailed information concerning financial risks being occurrences of reputational risk and can also help
given in note 2, Financial risks. mitigate the consequences of any incidents.
The H&M group’s overall approach to risk management Fashion risk
and internal control is described on pages 66-67 in the Operating in the fashion industry is a risk in itself.
corporate governance report. The description includes Fashion has a limited shelf-life and there is always
how the H&M group works according to the COSO and a risk that some part of the collections will not be
TCFD frameworks. sufficiently commercial, and will therefore not be well
received by customers. Purchasing decisions are also
OPERATIONAL RISKS increasingly influenced by customers’ desire to live
During 2022 there was a further increase over 2021 more sustainably.
in the ratio of risks related to external events — such
as the war in Ukraine, transport costs, inflation, and Within each segment and each collection it is crucial
energy costs in Europe — compared to business risks. to have the right volumes and a correct balance in
Increasing numbers of purchases are being made the mix between fashion basics and the latest trends.
combination of fashion, quality, price and sustainability. Uncertainties exist concerning how fluctuations in
An increasing degree of accuracy in purchasing external factors such as the price of raw materials,
decisions and volumes will help reduce overall transport costs and suppliers’ capacity will affect
resource consumption and contribute to our climate buying costs for the group’s products. There are
and circularity goals. also risks associated with social tensions in sourcing
markets, which may lead to instability for suppliers, and
To increase precision, the H&M group works in manufacturing and deliveries.
intensively to optimise the extent of ongoing buying
during the season in parallel with detailed analysis of The group therefore needs to monitor such changes
day-to-day sales and stock levels in different markets. closely and have strategies in place to deal with
Today fashion is global, but shopping patterns vary fluctuations as advantageously as possible for both the
between different markets and sales channels. The company and external stakeholders.
start of a season and the nature of a season vary
from country to country. Delivery dates and product Sustainability risks
volumes for the various markets and channels are The H&M group’s sustainability strategies aim to
therefore adjusted accordingly. The capability in the lead the change towards a more sustainable fashion
organisation to create regional and local customer industry. Climate change and its impacts has been
offerings has been further developed to meet this identified as one of the company’s most significant
demand. risks. Other principal risks identified include shortage
of natural resources, failure to uphold human rights
Weather risk early in the value chain, corruption, political and
The H&M group’s products are purchased for sale social instability in production and sourcing markets,
based on assumptions concerning weather patterns. and changed consumption patterns and customer
Deviation from these assumptions affects sales. This is attitudes. This last factor could ultimately have major
particularly true at the point of transition between two effects on the H&M group’s sales — both positive and
seasons, such as from summer to autumn or autumn negative. The outcome depends on how successful
to winter. For example, a warmer than usual autumn the company is in its work to develop relevant and
may have a negative effect on sales of weather-related more sustainable customer offerings and business
garments in particular, such as outerwear and chunky models. For a more detailed description of risks related
knitwear. The company’s risk analysis has shown to sustainability see pages 86-107. For the climate risk
that climate change may have further effects on the analysis according to TCFD, see pages 103-107.
conditions for producing and distributing products in
certain regions and countries. The increasing effects Competitors
of climate change mean that these variations will likely The H&M group is constantly evolving its customer
increase in the future. offering and experience, to improve its capability
and capacity to have a more relevant and attractive
Negative macroeconomic changes and geopolitical customer offering than its competitors.
risks
One or more markets may be affected by events Information security and cybersecurity
that have a negative effect on the macroeconomic All companies are exposed to various types of risks
situation or geopolitical environment in a country. related to information technology. The risks to which
These changed macroeconomic or geopolitical the H&M group is exposed in this area are generically
circumstances, such as political instability, and in the applicable to any large company, and especially to
worst case war and also sudden negative events — large companies that also trade online. These risks
for example, virus outbreaks in one or more countries include hacking attempts on networks, disruption of
— may result in rapid changes in the business system stability, and attempts to access customer
environment, such as rising inflation, significant accounts or login details from employees by means
disruption in the supply chain and economic downturn, of phishing. The H&M group manages this type of risk
which is likely to change consumer purchasing continuously. Ongoing investments, adjustments and
behaviour and thus negatively impact the group’s improvements are made to the organisation, systems,
sales. Future markets where an H&M Group brand procedures and subcontractors in order to deal with
becomes established may have an increased risk of security risks in the best way possible.
Data protection and GDPR if the Swedish krona has weakened or decrease if the
The H&M group works actively with privacy risks Swedish krona has strengthened.
to protect customers’ and employees’ data, and
to safeguard customer experience and employee Translation effects also arise in respect of the group’s
confidence. net assets on consolidation of the foreign sales
companies’ balance sheets. For more information on
As legislation in some jurisdictions could lead to currency hedging see note 2, Financial risks.
significant administrative fees, a central team provides
support and guidance on privacy risks, data protection Trade intervention
issues and new privacy legislations across countries Purchasing costs may be affected by decisions at
relevant to H&M Group. Additionally, a central tech a national level on issues such as export/import
team provides support and guidance on how to use subsidies, customs duties (see more below), textile
artificial intelligence in an ethical way. quotas and embargoes. The effects primarily impact
customers and companies in individual markets.
Each regional organisation has a data privacy Global companies with operations in many countries
manager tasked with ensuring that the framework are affected to a lesser extent, and among global
established by the central organisation is implemented. corporations’ trade interventions may be regarded
Compliance with the framework is governed by the as largely competition neutral. In the event of a major
central team and reported quarterly to an oversight trade war between two countries, not just sourcing
steering committee. costs but generally also the entire flow of goods from
production to the customer would be affected, which
FINANCIAL RISKS companies would need to mitigate.
Foreign currencies
Nearly half of the group’s sales are made in euros, Customs issues: Related party customs valuation
while the most significant currencies for the group’s continues to attract attention at a global, regional
purchasing are the US dollar and the euro. Fluctuation (the European Union) and national level, both from
in the US dollar’s exchange rate against the euro is the authorities and importers such as the H&M group. It
single largest foreign currency transaction exposure will therefore continue to be important for the H&M
for the group. group to proactively monitor and manage future
developments in this area. One challenge is that
Large and rapid exchange rate fluctuations, particularly customs authorities around the world are not taking
as regards the US dollar as the most important a consistent approach to the assessment of pricing
sourcing currency, may also have a significant between related parties, even though the basis for
effect on purchasing costs — even if this may be customs duties is established according to the same
regarded as relatively competition-neutral over global World Trade Organisation (WTO) customs
time. To hedge flows of goods in foreign currencies valuation rules.
and thereby reduce the effects of future exchange
rate fluctuations, payments for the group’s flows of Taxes
goods — i.e. the group’s purchases of goods and, in For multinational companies, today’s global
the majority of cases, also the corresponding foreign environment involves complex tax risks, such as the
currency inflows from the sales companies — are risk of double taxation and tax disputes. As a large
hedged under forward contracts on an ongoing basis global company, the H&M group closely monitors
to the companies H & M Finance AB and H & M Hennes developments in the field of tax. The H&M group is
& Mauritz GBC AB. present in many countries and through its operations
contributes to the community via various taxes and
In addition to the effects of transaction exposure, levies such as corporate tax, customs duties, income
translation effects also impact the group’s results. taxes, and indirectly via VAT or sales tax on goods sold
These effects arise due to changes in exchange rates to customers.
between the local currencies of the various foreign
sales companies and the Swedish krona compared The H&M group complies with national and
to the same period the previous year. The underlying international tax legislation, and always pays taxes
profit/loss in a market may be unchanged in the local and levies in line with local laws and regulations in
H&M group complies with the Base Erosion and Profit On 18 December 2020, the OECD published its
Shifting (BEPS) principles and does not shift its income Guidance on the transfer pricing implications of the
or profits between jurisdictions in a manufactured way, Covid-19 pandemic, which represents the consensus
or abuse low-tax or secrecy jurisdictions (tax havens) view of the 137 members of the Inclusive Framework
to gain any tax or financial secrecy benefits. The H&M on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) regarding
group’s tax rate for the financial year 2021/2022 was the application of the arm’s length principle and OECD
42.6 (23.0) percent. Transfer Pricing Guidelines to the situations and
challenges associated with the Covid-19 pandemic.
The H&M group’s tax policy, which can be found The H&M group applied the guidance in its transfer
at hmgroup.com/about-us/corporate-governance/ pricing model for 2022.
policies, reflects and supports H&M’s business. The
H&M group follows the Organisation for Economic Co- ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION, ANNUAL GENERAL
operation and Development (OECD) Transfer Pricing MEETING
Guidelines, which means that profits are allocated According to H&M’s articles of association, the board
and taxed where the value is created. The tax policy of H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB is to consist of no less
aims at a sustainable tax rate for the H&M group as a than three and no more than twelve members elected
whole, and therefore also for the individual countries by the general meeting, and no more than the same
in which the company operates. Details of individual number of deputies. The annual general meeting
jurisdictions’ tax positions are made available in the decides the exact number of board members and
country-by-country reporting as communicated with which individuals are to be elected to the board. Board
tax authorities around the globe. The H&M group has members are elected for the period until the end of the
been successfully compliant with its tax policy for next annual general meeting. The general meeting also
the financial year 2022 and the company’s quality decides on amendments to the articles of association.
management system for international tax and transfer
pricing has received an ISO 9001:2015 certification. NUMBER OF SHARES, MAIN SHAREHOLDERS ETC
At the end of the financial year H&M had 254,495
The H&M group works continually to ensure its tax shareholders. The total number of shares in H&M
strategy is designed to limit any distortion arising from is 1,655,072,000, of which 194,400,000 are class A
differences in tax legislation in different parts of the shares (ten votes per share) and 1,460,672,000 are
world. The company is committed to operate not just class B shares (one vote per share). The quota value
within the letter of the law, but also within the spirit for the shares in H&M is SEK 0.125. As at 30 November
of all tax laws that apply to the group’s operations 2022, H&M held 25,385,163 H&M class B shares in
— carrying out tax planning commercially and not treasury (1.53 percent of all shares in H&M). All of these
aggressively or in a manufactured way, and only treasury shares were purchased for a total amount
claiming tax reliefs that the group is entitled to and in of SEK 3,000 m in share buybacks during the period
the way they were intended to be claimed. June-November 2022 as authorised by the 2022
annual general meeting, for the purpose of distributing
The OECD guidelines on transfer pricing can be surplus liquidity and thereby adjusting H&M’s capital
interpreted in various ways, and consequently, tax structure by reducing its capital. It is intended that
authorities in different countries may question the the shares repurchased will be cancelled through a
outcome of the H&M group’s transfer pricing model resolution at the 2023 annual general meeting.
even though the model complies with the OECD
guidelines. For each subsidiary, the tax residence is the There are no restrictions on voting rights or
same as its place of domicile, and no subsidiary is tax authorisations to the board relating to the issue or
resident in more than one jurisdiction. The company’s acquisition of the company’s own shares.
Taiwan operations are a branch of the Netherlands
operations for administrative reasons. Tax is paid in H&M’s largest shareholder is Stefan Persson and
Taiwan and corresponding operational results are tax family, who via Ramsbury Invest AB hold all the class
consolidated in the Netherlands. The whereabouts of A shares, which represent 57.1 percent of the votes,
the main business activity for each subsidiary, by the as well as 653,093,901 (604,856,427) class B shares,
country-by-country reporting definition of activities, representing 19.2 (17.8) percent of the votes. In addition,
can be found as an enclosure to the Tax policy. the family privately own 36,400,289 class B shares.
Persson and family privately and via Ramsbury Invest and innovations. Moving successfully towards these
AB represent 77.3 (75.9) percent of the votes and 53.4 objectives is expected to result in finances remaining
(50.5) percent of the total number of shares. Ramsbury sound and sustainable, in accordance with the H&M
Invest AB is thus formally the parent company of group’s target of a strong capital structure with good
H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB. Ramsbury Invest AB is liquidity and financial flexibility, allowing continued
owned by Stefan Persson and family, and primarily freedom of action for growth and investments.
by Stefan Persson. Karl-Johan Persson is also a
shareholder in Ramsbury Invest AB. The board considers it important that senior
executives are paid competitive remuneration at
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT a market level, as regards both fixed and variable
H&M has elected to make the corporate governance compensation, based on responsibilities and
report available as a standalone document to the performance. To work successfully according to the
annual report in accordance with chapter 6 § 8 of company’s business plan and safeguard the company’s
the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The corporate long-term interests the company needs to be able
governance report is available at hmgroup.com/ to recruit, motivate and retain talented, committed
investors/reports/ and is also included on pages 55-72 employees. Senior executives shall be compensated
of the Annual and Sustainability Report. at what are considered by the company to be
competitive market rates, based partly on industry
GUIDELINES FOR REMUNERATION OF SENIOR comparisons. Levels of compensation shall be based
EXECUTIVES partly on the significance of the duties performed,
The annual general meeting held on 6 May 2021 i.e. the ability to affect the overall development of the
adopted the following guidelines for remuneration of group, and partly on the employee’s competencies,
senior executives. experience and performance. Together these decide
the level of remuneration for the individual concerned.
The guidelines cover remuneration to the CEO, Over time, the largest portion of the remuneration
remuneration to board members (aside from board shall consist of the fixed basic salary. The forms of
fees) and remuneration to other senior executives. compensation shall motivate senior executives to
Senior executives means members of the executive do their utmost to ensure the good financial and
management team apart from the CEO. The executive sustainable development of the H&M group.
management team comprises the individuals who
report directly to the CEO. Types of remuneration etc.
The total remuneration may consist of the following
The long-term variable remuneration, which applies components:
only to the executive management team including the
CEO, will be measured over a five-year period in order – fixed basic cash salary
to reward long-term value creation for H&M.
– short-term variable remuneration
How the guidelines contribute to the company’s
business strategy, long-term interests and – long-term variable remuneration
sustainability
The H&M group’s business plan aims to deliver long- – pension benefits
term, sustainable and profitable growth. The business
plan builds on the company’s ongoing transformation – other benefits
work and is illustrated by a number of objectives
to which the company’s sustainability efforts and Fixed basic cash salary
digital transformation contribute. These objectives Senior executives shall have a fixed basic cash salary
are to continue improving the customer offering for that is at a market level based on each position’s
all the brands, to build long-term and value-creating significance for the company as a whole. The fixed
customer relationships, to offer an inspiring experience basic cash salary shall reflect the individual’s area
with integrated digital and physical channels, to of responsibility, competencies and experience and
adapt the supply chain so that it is faster and more requires the individual to work in a committed manner
flexible based on demand, and to add more revenue at a high professional level.
Variable remuneration part of the range within the set framework, therefore,
The variable remuneration may consist of a short-term the predetermined target levels are required to be
and a long-term portion. exceeded.
There shall be a clear link between the level of Half of the remuneration payment shall be invested in
performance-based variable remuneration paid H&M shares that must be held for at least three years.
and the H&M group’s financial and sustainable Each year the board will set target levels for each of
development. Senior executives’ variable remuneration the four performance parameters for the coming year.
shall therefore depend on the fulfilment of targets.
The targets shall aim to promote the H&M group’s Long-term variable remuneration: The long-term
development in both the short and the long term. variable remuneration shall be based on target
fulfilment measured over five financial years starting
Short-term variable remuneration: Fulfilment of from the current 2021 financial year and ending at the
targets shall be measured over a period of one year. close of the 2025 financial year. This period, i.e. 1 Dec
The short-term variable remuneration shall be based 2020 – 30 Nov 2025, is known as the measurement
on fulfilment of targets in the following areas: period. The long-term variable remuneration – which
shall apply only to the executive management team
— the H&M group’s total sales including the CEO, totalling 15 individuals – shall be
based on fulfilment of targets within the following
— the H&M group’s total operating profit areas:
— fulfilment of the objectives in the various areas of — the H&M group’s total sales
the business plan, which include sustainability and
— the H&M group’s total operating profit
— assessment of leadership and compliance with
values — fulfilment of the objectives in the various areas
of the business plan in total, which include
For the last two performance parameters it is the sustainability, and
individual’s performance within their own area of
responsibility that is assessed. For the financial targets, — assessment of leadership and compliance with
the assessment is to be based on the most recent values.
financial year. The board of directors is responsible
for this assessment in the case of short-term variable Each of these four predetermined performance
remuneration to the CEO. In the case of short-term parameters shall have equal weighting, i.e. each
variable remuneration to other senior executives, the represents a quarter of the total target fulfilment. For
CEO is responsible for the assessment. the long-term variable remuneration the assessment
of the financial targets shall be based on a summing
Each of these four predetermined performance up of the past five financial years, with fulfilment of the
parameters has equal weighting, i.e. each represents annual target levels in the short-term arrangement –
a quarter of the total target fulfilment. However, there i.e. within sales and profit – forming the basis for target
is a threshold value for the second parameter, i.e. fulfilment in the long-term arrangement. For the other
operating profit, which means that if this value is not two performance parameters – i.e. fulfilment of the
reached then no short-term variable remuneration business plan, and leadership and compliance with
will be paid regardless of target fulfilment for the values – an overall assessment is to be made of the
other three parameters. The short-term variable total for the H&M group for the entire measurement
remuneration, which at individual level is based on period. After the measurement period has ended the
the extent to which the person’s duties and position board is responsible for an overall assessment based
influence the overall development of the group, may on the four performance parameters and for deciding
amount to 0-3 months’ salary, 0-6 months’ salary or the long-term variable remuneration that will be paid
0-12 months’ salary. Monthly salary refers to fixed basic to the CEO. The long-term variable remuneration to be
cash salary. If the target levels set by the board are paid to other senior executives will be established by
fulfilled, half of the maximum remuneration in each the board in consultation with the CEO.
A precondition for receiving the long-term portion percent of the senior executive’s annual fixed basic
shall be that the participants make an initial investment salary.
of their own in H&M shares, amounting to around 10
percent of their fixed basic annual cash salary after The cost of the present commitments is partly covered
tax, close to the 2021 annual general meeting. These by separate insurance policies.
shares shall then be held for the entire measurement
period. After three years, provided they remain The retirement age for the CEO is 65.
employed by the group, the initial investment will be
matched by the receipt of a cash amount after tax The retirement age for other senior executives varies
equal to two times their own initial outlay. This sum between 62 and 65 years.
is to be invested in H&M shares as soon as possible.
These shares are also to be held for the entire Other benefits
measurement period. Senior executives may receive other benefits such
as wellness subsidies, car allowances and medical
The aim of the initial investment of their own in H&M insurance. The total annual costs associated with other
shares as well as the investment of the matching sum benefits must not exceed 20 percent of the individual’s
in H&M shares is to build up their own shareholding in annual fixed basic salary.
H&M in order thereby to further align the interests of
the executive management team with the interests of Termination of employment
the shareholders in the good, long-term development The period of notice for senior executives may vary
of the company. between three and 12 months. Variable remuneration
is not to be paid if the individual has given notice to
The maximum total remuneration within the terminate their employment.
framework of the long-term variable remuneration
arrangement for the entire measurement period, The CEO is entitled to 12 months’ notice. In the event
which includes both the matching amount in year 3 that the company terminates the CEO’s employment
and the remuneration in year 5 after the measurement contract, a year’s fixed basic cash salary may also be
period has ended, may vary between SEK 1.75 million paid to the CEO as severance pay. No other severance
net after tax and SEK 7 million net after tax depending pay is payable.
on the individual’s duties and the extent to which their
position affects the overall development of the group. Salary and employment terms for other employees
of the company
The H&M group’s total cost, including social security When preparing the board’s proposed guidelines
costs, for the long-term variable remuneration is for remuneration to senior executives consideration
expected to amount to a maximum of around SEK was given to the salary and employment terms of
150 million. A provision of SEK 30 million per year is the company’s other employees by using information
expected to be made for a total of five years. concerning the employees’ total remuneration, the
components of the remuneration and the increase
Pension benefits in and rate of increase in the remuneration over time
In the case of the CEO, pension benefits – including as part of the basis on which the board assessed
sickness insurance – are to be on a defined whether the guidelines, and the resulting limitations,
contribution basis. Variable cash remuneration shall are reasonable.
not be pensionable. The pension premiums for the
year must not exceed 30 percent of the CEO’s annual Consultancy fees
fixed basic salary. Where a board member performs work for the
company (including through a wholly owned company)
In the case of other senior executives, pension benefits in addition to their board work, a separate fee may
– including sickness insurance – are to be on a defined be paid for this (consultancy fee). Such fee shall not
contribution basis unless the executive is covered by exceed the board fee paid to the member concerned.
a defined benefit pension plan under the mandatory The fee is to be based on the current market rate and
provisions of collective bargaining agreements. The be proportionate to the benefit for the company and
pension premiums for the year must not exceed 40 the extent to which such work contributes to the good
financial and sustainable development of the H&M Description of significant changes to the guidelines
group. and how shareholders’ views have been taken into
account
Decision process for establishment, review and The pandemic has speeded up many changes in
implementation of the guidelines society and the industry that were already driving
The company has no remuneration committee, since the H&M group’s transformation. Digitalisation has
the board of directors deems it more appropriate accelerated and awareness of the importance of
for the entire board to carry out the tasks of a remu- sustainable development has increased. In the H&M
neration committee. The board prepares proposed group’s ongoing transformation it is important to have
guidelines for remuneration to senior executives and a good balance between short-term and long-term
these proposals are presented at the annual general decisions. The proposed guidelines therefore include
meetings. The board is to prepare a proposal for new supplementary long-term variable remuneration for
guidelines at least every four years and submit the the executive management team while also clarifying
proposal for decision by the annual general meeting. the performance parameters for the short-term
The guidelines shall apply until new guidelines have variable remuneration. In addition, the relationship
been adopted by the annual general meeting. The between variable and fixed remuneration has been
board shall also monitor and evaluate programmes for made clearer, and certain other changes have been
variable remuneration to the company’s management made. The changes are in line with views presented by
and the application of the guidelines for remuneration shareholders.
to senior executives, as well as current remuneration
structures and levels in the company. The board shall PROPOSAL TO THE 2023 AGM
further decide on the CEO’s salary in accordance with The board is proposing to the 2023 AGM that no
the guidelines in effect and shall continually evaluate changes are made to the guidelines for remuneration
the work of the CEO. Once a year this matter is to be of senior executives.
discussed separately in conjunction with the setting of
the CEO’s remuneration for the coming year. To avoid FINANCING AND LIQUIDITY
conflicts of interest, no member of the company’s The H&M group aims to secure financial flexibility
management is to be present when the board dis- and freedom of action on the best possible terms.
cusses remuneration matters. As previously, the efforts focus on continued
improvements in working capital, cash flow and more
Other efficient financing.
Senior executives are also entitled to the benefits
accruing under the profit-sharing programme known Cash flow and working capital
as the H&M Incentive Program, which is for all Cash flow from operating activities for the full year
employees of the H&M group. The programme was amounted to SEK 24,476 m (44,619). Excluding IFRS
adopted by a previous annual general meeting and is 16, cash flow from operating activities amounted to
not covered by these guidelines. SEK 12,337 m (32,304). Working capital from operating
activities amounted to SEK 24,419 m (19,983).
Regarding employment terms falling under rules other
than Swedish rules, in the case of pension benefits Liquidity and debt financing
and other benefits the guidelines are to be adapted as The H&M group’s liquidity remains very good. As at 30
appropriate to comply with any such mandatory rules November 2022 cash and cash equivalents amounted
or established local practice, while fulfilling the general to SEK 21,707 m (27,471). In addition, the group has
aim of the guidelines as far as possible. undrawn credit facilities of SEK 17,469 m (15,178). The
total liquidity buffer, i.e. cash and cash equivalents plus
The board may decide to temporarily deviate from the undrawn credit facilities, amounted to SEK 39,176 m
guidelines in full or in part if there is particular reason (42,649).
to do so in an individual case and this is necessary in
order to provide for the company’s long-term interests Interest-bearing liabilities in the form of commercial
and sustainability or to ensure the financial viability of papers, bonds and loans from credit institutions
the company. amounted to SEK 10,778 m (9,614) as at 30 November
2022. The average maturity of interest-bearing
Financial net cash amounted to SEK 10,929 m (17,857). this, the board of directors has proposed a dividend
Net debt including provisions for pensions and policy stating that the ordinary dividend over time
excluding IFRS 16 amounted to SEK -10,596 m (-17,428). is to exceed 50 percent of profit after tax and
additionally that identified surplus liquidity – taking
To improve the maturity structure of the group’s into consideration the capital structure target and
undrawn revolving credit facilities the following investment requirements – can be distributed to
financing activities took place in the 2022 financial shareholders through an extra dividend or a buyback
year: programme.
— The EUR 700 m credit facility opened in 2017 that Proposed distribution of earnings
expires in 2023 was closed. The funds at the disposal of the parent company are
SEK 16,009 m. The board of directors is proposing
— Two credit facilities opened in 2020 and expiring in to the annual general meeting 2023 that a dividend
2023 for a total of SEK 8,000 m were closed. of SEK 6.50 per share is paid, totalling SEK 10,593 m,
and that the remaining earnings of H & M Hennes &
— A five-year sustainability-linked EUR 1,300 m credit Mauritz AB of SEK 5,416 m are carried forward. The
facility was opened, with two options to extend for dividend will be paid in cash, split into two instalments.
a year at a time. The first payment of SEK 3.25 will be made in May
and the second payment of SEK 3.25 will be made in
— A three-year sustainability-linked EUR 300 m credit November. The board’s proposed record dates are 8
facility was opened, with two options to extend for May 2023 and 10 November 2023. If the resolution is
a year at a time. approved at the annual general meeting, the dividend
is expected to be paid out on 11 May 2023 and 15
A maturity analysis of outstanding interest-bearing November 2023.
liabilities and undrawn credit facilities is given in the
table in note 2. The board of directors will also ask the 2023 annual
general meeting for authorisation allowing it to
CAPITAL STRUCTURE repurchase the company’s own B shares in the period
The H&M group advocates a conservative leverage up to the 2024 annual general meeting for a maximum
ratio, aiming for a strong capital structure with strong of SEK 3 billion. The board of directors will wait to
liquidity and financial flexibility. It is essential that, as in see how the company develops during the year and
the past, expansion and investments can proceed with the authorisation will only be used provided that,
continued freedom of action. The capital structure just as to date, the expansion and investments are
is defined as net debt in relation to EBITDA. It should able to take place with continued freedom of action
not exceed 1.0 x EBITDA over time. Net debt/EBITDA and taking into consideration the financial position
excluding IFRS 16 effects was -0.6 (-0.7) as at 30 and capital structure targets of the group and the
November 2022. parent company, as well as the requirements that the
nature and extent of the business and its risks and
IFRS 16 Leases, which is being applied from 1 development plans impose on the equity and liquidity
December 2019, has substantial effects on the of the group and the parent company.
reporting of liabilities, assets and EBITDA. However,
the H&M group will continue to define the capital The board’s assessment is that the proposed
structure exclusive of IFRS 16 effects. The company distribution of earnings is justifiable taking into
considers this to provide a clearer picture of the actual consideration the good cash flow, continued
debt/equity ratio, and it is also the measure used in strong financial position and ability to make future
internal monitoring. investments (capex). The proposal takes into
consideration the financial position and continued
DIVIDEND POLICY freedom of action of the group and the parent
The board of directors’ intention is for the H&M group company, the capital structure target and the
to continue to provide shareholders with a good requirements that the nature and extent of the
return while ensuring that growth and investments business and its risks, expansion and development
in the business can proceed with a continued strong plans impose on the equity and liquidity of the group
The board is proposing to the 2023 AGM that a cash
dividend of SEK 6.50 per share is paid.
The following funds are at the
disposal of the annual general
meeting SEK 16,009,039,715
The board proposes a dividend
to the shareholders of SEK 6.50
per share SEK 10,592,964,441
To be carried forward as
retained earnings SEK 5,416,075,274
Total SEK 16,009,039,715
Statutory Sustainability Report
INTRODUCTION listen to our customers and meet them where they are,
This report is prepared in accordance with Chapter 6 while inspiring them to develop a new relationship with
§§ 10-14 of the Annual Accounts Act and covers the fashion.
financial year from 1 December 2021 to 30 November
2022. We report separately on environmental and social
risks but recognise the deep interconnection between
H&M Group reports against existing and evolving people and the planet, as existing inequities and
legislation, including policies developed by the threats to human rights are exacerbated by resource
European Union, Germany, Norway and the UK; depletion and climate change. Through our strategy,
read more at hmgroup.com/sustainability and in our we support progress towards the UN Sustainable
Sustainability Disclosure. We also report against Development Goals and Agenda 2030, alongside other
external frameworks including the Global Reporting global commitments such as the Paris Agreement on
Initiative, UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework, Climate Change and the UN Declaration of Human
and Task Force on Climate-related Financial Rights. Learn more about our policies, strategies and
Disclosures. performance in our Sustainability Disclosure, Global
Reporting Initiative and UN Guiding Principles indexes,
The Statutory Sustainability Report contains Modern Slavery Statement, and other supporting web
information on H&M Group’s sustainability content at hmgroup.com/sustainability.
performance, position and results, and the
sustainability impact by and on the company’s Investments in sustainability provide H&M Group with
operations. It includes disclosures on issues relevant long-term business opportunities, for example by
to the company’s value chain, including climate and offering customers new ways to experience fashion
the environment, working conditions, inclusion and with less negative environmental or social impacts than
diversity, respect for human rights and anti-corruption traditional linear (make-use-dispose) business models.
measures. In a changing world facing significant social and
environmental challenges and resource constraints,
More detail on individual topics can be found in our our work to improve our materials sourcing, processes
latest Sustainability Disclosure at hmgroup.com/ and products also helps us to build resilience as a
sustainability, or in other locations linked from relevant business and throughout our supply chain. See page
places in the text below. 16 for details about our business model and page 31
for the business opportunities connected to the shift
Indicators marked * have been reviewed or partially towards a circular, net-zero fashion industry.
reviewed by the company’s auditors through a limited
assurance process — the scope is confirmed with Our strategy is underpinned by our commitment to
footnotes in relevant data tables. respect human rights. It guides how we play our part
in tackling climate change, supporting biodiversity,
OUR STRATEGY avoiding natural resource depletion and reducing
We aim to grow our business in a way that decouples social inequality. These and other risks to our business,
our financial growth and profitability from the the planet and people connected to our value chain
use of finite natural resources, so that business are all interlinked. We engage with our stakeholders —
and communities can thrive within the planetary who also represent or are themselves “rights holders”
boundaries. In early 2022, we strengthened this — as part of our process to determine material issues
ambition by introducing a goal to double our sales and key risks to human rights, and to mitigate these.
(from a 2021 baseline) while halving our greenhouse
gas emissions (from a 2019 baseline) by 2030. This Find details of our operational risks on pages 76-78,
goal is supported by our existing targets, including our climate-related risks in our reporting against
our science-based emissions reduction targets, and Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
by short- and medium- term milestones that guide our recommendations on page 103-107, and our risks to
actions. people in our Salient Human Rights Issues analysis at
https://hmgroup.com/sustainability/fair-and-equal/
Our ambition is to lead the change towards a circular human-rights/.
fashion industry with net-zero climate impact, while
TRANSPARENCY — Production supply chain: Suppliers that contribute
Transparency is central to our strategy. While not to making the apparel, footwear, homeware and
a direct indicator of sustainability performance, beauty products we sell through our brands.
increased disclosure creates accountability and
comparability. — Services supply chain: Suppliers that provide
services such as landlords, cleaning, construction,
This year the fashion industry has faced increased warehouse operations and transportation.
scrutiny over sustainability claims. While brands
have responded to increasing customer demands — Other supply chains & business partners: Such as
for product sustainability information, the lack of administration, business services, procurement, and
robust data systems, harmonised legislation and a communications and marketing services.
standardised approach to sustainability claims have
hindered true accountability and comparability. The size and scale of our business connects us to
Together with peers and stakeholders, H&M Group is people, communities, natural systems, peers and other
working to improve this, by testing and piloting new businesses and organisations globally. We work with
ways of tracing materials and collecting and sharing approximately 500 commercial product suppliers for
data. the H&M brand and portfolio brands. These suppliers
operate approximately 1,200 manufacturing units
We welcome the positive shift towards clearer and final product processing units (collectively called
guidance and increased transparency, which can only supplier factories) for apparel, footwear, accessories,
be achieved through improved data collection and home interior products, furniture and beauty products.
traceability. Our intention is to continue providing H&M Group has 15 production offices across major
impact data to customers and other stakeholders, to sourcing markets. We have 4,465 stores in 78 markets
incentivise and drive positive change in the industry. and 58 online markets.
H&M Group remains committed to increasing our level
of transparency. We work to continually improve the Across our entire value chain, we aim to maximise
comparability and quality of the data, systems and positive impacts and minimise negative ones —
calculations we use. guided by our values, policies and long-term business
and sustainability goals. In line with our strategy, we
Read about H&M Group’s commitment to transparency work to secure human rights, have a positive social
on page 22 and in our Sustainability Disclosure at impact on people in our operations and supply chain,
hmgroup.com/sustainability. promote inclusion and diversity, and reduce resource
use and negative impacts on climate, water, land and
OUR VALUE CHAIN biodiversity.
Our value chain includes the full range of activities
required to plan, design, source, process and SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
manufacture, transport, market, sell, use, rent, reuse Structures & accountability
and recycle our products. Our head of sustainability together with the executive
management team are responsible for implementing
We continually evolve our value chain to become more the company’s sustainability vision. The head of
customer centric and aligned with our sustainability sustainability and of each function and brand reports
vision — moving from a linear system toward an directly to the CEO or CFO, including information on
ecosystem where resources recirculate between sustainability key performance indicators (KPIs). For
different people and partners. We are developing further details on our corporate governance, see page
reverse supply chains to recover resources from our 55.
production processes or collect used garments and
feed these back into making new products. We are Accountability for implementation and performance
also investing in new ways to bring products to our against our strategies, policies and goals is integrated
customers, such as reselling pre-owned products. into key roles and responsibilities in our respective
These efforts help us to build more resilient supply business functions and brands, and forms part of
chains and business models, and strengthen our their performance review with our CEO. Our business
customer experience. We work with several supply functions and brands are supported by 37 experts and
Sustainability governance diagram
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
CEO OR CFO
Report directly to CEO or CFO Quarterly, biannual, and annual
data reviews to check progress
and set future direction.
HEAD OF SUSTAINABILITY BRAND AND BUSINESS
HEADS OF FUNCTIONS
DEPARTMENT MANAGERS
SUSTAINABILITY DEPARTMENT GROUP FUNCTIONS BRANDS AND BUSINESSES
Sustainability is further integrated
into our business through ongoing
cross-functional collaboration at
every level of the business — to
346 people (224 in 2021) across H&M Group have sustainability as their define priorities and work towards
core task, and it’s becoming part of everyone’s role as we integrate sustainability sustainability goals.
into our overall business goals and agenda.
Our Sustainability Department gives quarterly for impacts to the rights holders affected by our
progress reports against sustainability KPIs, key business. We recognise the interconnectedness
challenges, learnings and activities — facilitating between environmental issues such as climate change,
visibility of impacts, achievements and challenges resource use, biodiversity and water scarcity, and
across functions, brands and markets. In addition, the human rights and livelihoods.
head of sustainability reports a performance overview
to the board of directors biannually. We are continuing to evolve our risk-based human
rights due diligence process, which applies to our
A total of 346 people across the group have operations, value chain and the communities where we
sustainability as their core task, and we continue to operate. This process is based on the Organization for
integrate sustainability into wider roles across H&M Economic Cooperation and Development Guidelines for
Group. We connect management remuneration to Multinational Entrerprises and the UN Guiding Principles.
sustainability performance. We pay special attention to groups vulnerable to
infringement of rights, such as migrant workers and
We engage with external and internal stakeholders children. We do not accept forced labour or child labour.
to ensure material issues and human rights risks
are identified, prioritised and incorporated into the We identify and manage human rights risks in our value
company’s strategies and procedures. Engagement chain through the following steps:
with stakeholders also informs our risk management
process, which we have strengthened this year — Policy development. We develop, update and
to ensure greater integration with our corporate apply relevant human rights policies and standards
governance processes. to our daily business operations, including internal
social policies and the Sustainability Commitment
Due diligence & risk management for suppliers and business partners.
Our commitments to respect and advance human
rights and to reduce environmental impact are central — Due diligence. We engage in ongoing due
to our due diligence. We have integrated our human diligence to identify and assess human rights risks
rights due diligence process further into our corporate and impacts, and to prevent, mitigate and remedy
governance and risk management processes, to issues in line with the UN Guiding Principles on
— Grievance mechanisms and incident as forced labour and fair recruitment of migrant
management. We strive to support grievances to workers, health and safety, inclusion and diversity,
be handled and addressed as close to the issue data privacy and child rights.
as possible — and for grievance and remediation
processes to be transparent, trusted and accessible Read more about our operational risks — including
for the intended user. Our Internal Grievance risks related to sustainability, cybersecurity and data
Policy outlines one of our internal processes, protection, macroeconomic and geopolitical factors,
and we expect business partners to have similar and reputational risks — on pages 76-78. Read our Task
operational-level grievance mechanisms in Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
place. Since 2022, anyone can raise and escalate reporting on pages 103-107 for more information on
concerns using our Speak Up channel — our climate-related risks and opportunities.
corporate complaints channel — for reporting
suspected misconduct across our value chain.1 The Supply chain management
channel supports anonymous reporting and we do We have historically focused largely on driving
not tolerate retaliation toward the person reporting. environmental and social progress in our production
supply chain as this is where we have the biggest
— Stakeholder engagement. We engage with impact. We are increasingly working more closely with
stakeholders (rights holders), including workers, our other supply chains, taking the same systematic
employees, customers, employers, unions, human approach to identifying the most significant risks to
rights experts and civil society. Read more about the environment and human rights and addressing
our stakeholder engagement activities at hmgroup. them through policies, partnerships and continuous
com/sustainability. improvement.
— Training. We provide human rights training, tailored All business partners need to comply with our Code of
to our different functions and roles. This includes Ethics, and requirements relating to environment and
a basic introduction to human rights, an outline human rights standards. For our major supply chains
of the company’s responsibilities in line with the these requirements are spelled out in our Sustainability
UNGP, and an explanation of due diligence and Commitment. The Code of Ethics also outlines a zero-
management processes. It also includes topic- tolerance policy on corruption and requires business
specific training for parts of the organisation, partners and employees to comply with relevant
such as awareness raising on specific topics such legislation as well as our own business principles. Our
SUPPLIER COVERAGE OF SIPP, FEM, FSLM & VERIFICATION 2021 2022
SIPP (Sustainable Impact Partnership Programme)
Tier 1 supplier factories that have implemented SIPP 100% 100%
Tier 2 dyeing and printing supplier factories that have implemented SIPP 100% 100%
FEM (Higg Facility Environmental Module)
Tier 1 supplier factories that have implemented FEM (% coverage) 894 858 (67%)
Tier 2 supplier factories that have implemented FEM (% coverage) 337 509 (53%)
Tier 1 third-party verifications for FEM (verifications November 2021–October 2022) 98% 849 (99%)
Tier 2 third-party verifications for FEM (verifications November 2021–October 2022) 98% 505 (99%)
FSLM (Higg Facility Social and Labor Module)
Tier 1 supplier factories that have implemented FSLM (% coverage) 883 843 (66%)
Tier 2 supplier factories that have implemented FSLM (% coverage) 332 501 (52%)
Tier 1 third-party verifications for FSLM (November 2021–October 2022) 96% 843 (100%)
Tier 2 third-party verifications for FSLM (November 2021–October 2022) 94% 501 (100%)
FEM1 SCORES — PARTICIPATING TIER 1 & TIER 2 SUPPLIER FACTORIES 2020 2021 2022
Overall score (out of 100)2 52 57 64
Based on the combined average for...
Environmental Management Systems 59 70 78
Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions 82 87 91
Water use 73 76 82
Wastewater 59 67 74
Air emissions 29 29 38
Waste management 34 37 43
Chemical management 29 32 39
1) Higg Facility Environmental Module.
2) Average of all active, approved tier 1 and tier 2 factories that have a verified score, except four factories providing self-assessed result due to their high performance and low deviation
between self-assessed and verified score in the past years. Scores are based on the previous year’s data, e.g. the 2022 overall score is based on 2021 data.
Sustainability Commitment is included in contractual CIRCULARITY, CLIMATE & NATURE
agreements, and we take a risk-based and context- Risks & opportunities
adjusted approach to follow up on compliance with our Environmental risks to our business, value chain,
evolving requirements. communities and the planet include depletion of
natural resources, climate change, biodiversity
Our Sustainable Impact Partnership Programme (SIPP) loss, land use change, water impacts, and changing
monitors compliance with our standards, measures consumption patterns. Many environmental risks
performance, supports suppliers’ due diligence are closely connected to human rights risks — for
procedures, and encourages improvements in our example land rights and livelihoods, the right to access
production supply chain. Through SIPP, we assess clean water and the impact of climate change on
supplier factories against tools developed by the communities that already have inequitable access
Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) together with the to resources or finance. Find further details on our
industry, academia, NGOs and others. These tools are operational risks on pages 76-78. Read our Task
the Higg Facility Environmental Module (FEM) and Higg Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Facility Social and Labor Module (FSLM). See below reporting on pages 103-107 for more information on
for supplier SIPP, FEM, FSLM coverage, third-party climate-related risks and opportunities — including
verification coverage, and FEM scores. We continue to physical risks from climate change and risks and
engage with the SAC and peers to advocate for and opportunities associated with the transition to a lower-
develop an impact-focused FSLM industry scoring tool. carbon economy.
Through our Sustainability Index and other business As customer preferences continue to evolve, we see
KPIs we identify and reward high-performing an increased relevance and opportunity to engage
suppliers with better business prospects. It includes with this key group of stakeholders on environmental
consideration of suppliers’ FEM/FSLM assessment topics. Our focus is on further accelerating investment
results and performance data. in products, supply chains and customer journeys
that support a circular, net-zero fashion sector. There
Read about how we work with suppliers — including is increased potential to create positive impact and
our production supply chain and other supply chains — longer-lasting relationships with customers by offering
and our supply chain performance in our Sustainability services throughout products’ lifecycles that increase
Disclosure at hmgroup.com/sustainability. product value and use.
Identifying, investing in, testing and scaling innovative
materials and processes, planning accuracy, and
resilience of our business and supply chain by reducing avoided. By aiming for net-zero we focus on reducing
dependence on limited natural resources. It will also our absolute climate impact, supported by our public
support our commitment to respect and advance affairs work and collaboration to effect wider climate
human rights and contribute to more favourable progress.
environmental conditions for communities and people.
Performance
Find further explanation of the company’s focus on The Circularity, Climate & Nature KPI table (see page
circularity, climate and nature in our Sustainability 92) features indicators selected to offer an overview of
Disclosure at hmgroup.com. See page 31 in this report our performance. Here, we share additional details:
for more details on how the company connects
sustainability to our customer offering. We continued to work towards net-zero emissions
across our value chain:
Strategy & policies
We identify and capture opportunities and manage — Our scope 1 and 2 emissions decreased by 8
risks through our Circularity, Climate and Nature percent, compared to our 2019 baseline (an
strategy, which focuses on: increase of 18 percent compared to last year) and
our scope 3 emissions decreased by 7 percent,
— Climate and nature. We are working to achieve compared to our 2019 baseline (a decrease of 4
our science-based target of net-zero greenhouse percent compared to last year). The increase in
gas (GHG) emissions across our value chain by scope 1 and 2 emissions compared to last year
2040, reach a 30 percent reduction in absolute was largely a result of the reduction in the share
total freshwater use by 2030, ensure wastewater of renewable electricity purchased in 2022. This
quality, and contribute to the global goal to have a is primarily due to us not purchasing renewable
positive impact on nature in line with the ARRRT electricity certificates in Russia, and to some
(Avoid, Reduce, Restore, Regenerate, Transform) degree sourcing challenges in a few other
framework. markets. A historic undercalculation due to use
of an incorrect conversion factor for natural gas
— Resource use and circularity. We are committed calculations also caused part of this increase in
to move from a linear to a circular ecosystem, emissions. Read more about changes to our scope
where resources are kept in use for as long as 1, 2 and 3 emissions reporting at hmgroup.com/
possible, to support the decoupling of our business sustainability/sustainability-reporting/how-we-
growth from resource use. We seek to use circular report/.
design and use recycled, regenerative or other
sustainably sourced materials, alongside investing — Use of renewable electricity in our own operations
to scale the repair, reuse, remake and recycling of was 92 percent (compared to 95 percent in 2021).
products, packaging and non-commercial goods. The reduction in renewable electricity purchasing in
Read more about how we define these terms in 2022 is due to us not purchasing renewable energy
our Sustainability Disclosure at hmgroup.com/ certificates in Russia this year, and to some degree
sustainability. sourcing challenges in a few other markets.
These two focus areas are closely connected. Our — We no longer onboard any new suppliers or supplier
work to improve material sourcing and shift to more factories if they have on-site coal boilers in their
circular business models supports our climate, water, facilities — as part of a longer-term aim to phase
biodiversity and chemicals goals. out coal from our supply chain. Supplier factories
reporting use of on-site coal boilers dropped to
Learn more about our Circularity, Climate and Nature 703 (91 in 2021) due to factors including our phase-
strategy in our Sustainability Disclosure at hmgroup. out of on-site coal, changes in our supplier base,
com/sustainability. For more details on related policies local policy, and H&M Group pushing for increased
and standards, visit hmgroup.com. electrification of steam. We are working closely
with supplier partners and local stakeholders in our
Net-zero, as defined by the Science Based Targets production countries to accelerate total substitution
initiative (SBTi), focuses on reducing emissions as far
CIRCULARITY, CLIMATE & NATURE KPIS
KPI1 2020 2021 2022 GOAL
Climate: % absolute reduction (scope 1 and 2) in GHG emissions
compared with 2019 baseline*2,3,4 +15 -22 -8 -56% by 2030
Climate: % absolute reduction (scope 3 — excluding use-phase -8 -35 -7 -56% by 2030
emissions) in GHG emissions compared with 2019 baseline*2,3,4
Climate: % renewable electricity in own operations*4 90 95 926 100% by 2030
Water: % reduction in production water use (water intensive tier 1 and 2 -4 -148 -219 -25% by 2022
suppliers) from 2017 baseline7
Water: % of water recycled out of total production water consumption7 18 21 21 15% by 2022
Water: % change in absolute total freshwater use (2022 baseline)10 - - Baselining year -30% by 2030
Commercial goods: % of Total 65 80 84 100% by 2030
recycled or other more
Other more sustainably sourced 59 62 61 Monitor
sustainably sourced
materials*11 Recycled 6 18 23 30% by 2025
Packaging: % of recycled or other more sustainably sourced materials used12 - 68 85 100% by 2030
* Reviewed by the company’s auditors through a limited assurance process. The limited assurance process includes: all scope 1 and 2 emissions; scope 3 emissions for transportation, raw
materials, garment manufacturing and fabric production; renewable electricity; all cotton and synthetics data including our top three recycled materials (cotton, polyester, polyamide).
1) In 2022, the company updated the selection of KPIs reported in this statutory report to include our water recycling goal and — in preparation for reporting from next year — our new
absolute water reduction goal. In future years, we will expand this list to include new KPIs related to our focus on circularity and resource use. We continue to report KPIs and data on
chemicals, cotton sourcing and packaging in our Sustainability Disclosure at hmgroup.com/sustainability.
2) Scope 1 emissions are all direct emissions from our own operations; scope 2 represents indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam used in our
own operations; scope 3 includes other indirect emissions, such as the extraction and production of purchased materials and fuels, transport-related activities in vehicles not owned
or controlled by the reporting entity, electricity-related activities not covered in scope 2, outsourced activities, and waste disposal. Includes emissions related to raw materials, fabric
production, garment manufacturing, non-garment/non-commercial goods, and customer electricity usage. Scope 1 and 2 limitations and comments: Only stores open for the full quarter
are included; company cars and refrigerant leakage are not included, electricity consumption for HVAC operated by landlord not included; electricity consumption includes both actuals
and estimations, where estimations are made if actuals are not received within the reporting deadline; for stores estimates are based on current average of opening hours and store area,
for other facilities estimates are based on previous consumption; includes market-based emissions from electricity. Scope 3 limitations and comments: franchise emissions are calculated
based on electricity intensity from comparable markets; capital goods, upstream leased assets, downstream leased assets, and processing of sold products are not included; upstream
transportation between suppliers, e.g. yarn spinner and fabric producer, are included in emission factors for materials. To align with the Science Based Targets initiative’s requirements, the
customer use phase is not included in the scope 3 goal. We will set a separate goal for the customer use phase. Scope 1 and 2 emissions factors: electricity – based on IEA data from CO₂e
Emissions from Fuel Combustion © OECD/IEA 2020, www.iea.org/statistics, licence www.iea.org/t&c; as modified by UL E&S; fuels – Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy
(BEIS), 2021 https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/greenhouse-gas-reporting-conversion-factors-2021. Scope 3 emissions factors: raw material and fabric production – Higg MSI;
garment production – electricity based on IEA data from CO₂e Emissions from Fuel Combustion © OECD/IEA 2020, www.iea.org/statistics, licence www.iea.org/t&c, as modified by UL E&S;
fuels – 2018 update https://www.epa.gov/climateleadership/center-corporate-climate-leadership-ghg-emission-factors-hub; other expenditures – Defra, 2014, Indirect emissions from the
supply chain; transport by rail, air, shipping, truck – emissions factors provided by Conlogic and NTM 2019.
3) During 2022 we have identified that the conversion factor in our system for natural gas reported in therms was incorrect. Therefore we have underreported scope 1 emissions with 2072
tCOe 2019, 1541 tCOe 2020, and 3408 tCOe 2021. We have also changed systems for calculating emissions for international freight in order to get better granularity and internal control.
2 2 2
Therefore we have recalculated the emissions for international freight historically. The updated result is decreasing historic emissions as follow: 2019 - 51 ktCOe, 2020 - 101 ktCOe, 2021 -
2 2
118 ktCOe. Read more about changes to our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions reporting at hmgroup.com/sustainability/sustainability-reporting/how-we-report/.
2
4) We use a shifted reporting year for energy and GHG emissions. For years 2019-2021 this is covering the period September–August but from 2022 and onwards it is aligned with our financial
year which is covering the period December-November. Since historic years market-based emissions and renewable electricity certificates purchase have been made on the period
September-August we are not changing this, but rather highlighting that from 2022 and onwards it will follow December-November.
5) Since the release of the previous report, we have changed our GHG emissions reporting period to better match our financial reporting. We are also continuously improving our calculation
method and strengthening our emissions data, which requires updates to historical data. These changes have led to a smaller decrease between 2019-2021 than previously reported, mainly
due to the baseline year emissions being lower than previously reported, rather than the emissions in 2021 being higher.
6) The reduction in renewable electricity purchasing in 2022 is due to us not purchasing renewable energy certificates in Russia this year, and to some degree sourcing challenges in a few
other markets.
7) Data based on Q1to Q3 2022. From next year, we will move to reporting against our new Water Strategy goals, based on 2022 baseline data.
8) 2021 data restated as -14% for the full year — in last year’s report we stated -10.3% based on Q1 to Q3 2021.
9) Includes a total of 440 manufacturing, fabric dyeing and printing suppliers in both tier 1 and tier 2 with water-intensive wet production, based on Q1-Q3 2022 performance data, reported by
factory and calculated using weighted averages for litre per kg of dyed knitted fabric, litre per metre of woven/denim fabric, and litre per unit of product washed.
10) New KPI added in 2022.
11) Based on season 5 and season 6 data for 2022. Includes all shell materials — does not include materials used as filling, lining or trims on garments. Read about how we define “more
sustainably sourced” for different raw materials in our material categorisation at hmgroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/HM-Group-Material-Categorisation-2021-1.pdf.
12) In 2022 we continued to improve data management systems and the traceability process to secure certified packaging. To align with the 2021 improved methodology to capture FSC
certifications, data for 2020 is removed.
of coal, as well as financially supporting suppliers to phase out coal and increasing the share of more
to transition to solar PV, solar thermal, and thermal sustainably sourced materials — was approximately
energy from agricultural residues. This will make SEK 2.6 billion.
a significant contribution to reaching our absolute
GHG emissions reduction goal. — In 2021, we issued a EUR 500 million sustainability-
linked bond with the aim of financing — among
— Our total 2022 spend on decarbonisation other things — an accelerated transition to recycled
— including, for example, energy efficiency materials and reduction of GHG emissions (scope
times oversubscribed and the interest rate is tied India, Bangladesh and Türkiye, raising our minimum
to how well we succeed at achieving the recycled requirement bar to “green” graded ETPs only from
materials and GHG emissions reduction targets. 1st of Jan 2023, and raising our wastewater quality
Read more about our sustainability-linked bond at requirements.
hmgroup.com.
— We launched our new Water Strategy 2030 as the
— We joined the LEAF (Lowering Emissions by next step following our 2018-22 Water Roadmap.
Accelerating Forest Finance) Coalition, which brings The new strategy marks a shift away from relative
together the private sector and governments water efficiency to focus on absolute water
to reduce emissions by protecting tropical and use reduction, which will measure how well we
subtropical forests. We also entered into our first decouple growth from resource consumption. We
contract for permanent13 carbon dioxide removal have set contextual water targets guided by local
(CDR), via a multi-year agreement with Climeworks basin and operational issues in each of our facilities,
using direct air capture and storage. and such targets include quality, governance,
access to water and sanitation (WASH) and flooding
— We partnered on a range of projects to introduce risk. We will report on progress against these
regenerative practices in agriculture, which targets starting from next year.
encourage plant and diversity, restore soil health
and biodiversity, and support the livelihoods of local — We sourced 84 percent recycled or other more
communities. For example, through our three-year sustainably sourced materials in our commercial
partnership with BKB and Textile Exchange in South goods compared to 80 percent in 2021. This further
Africa, we aim to introduce regenerative practices progress towards our 100 percent goal is largely
across more than 500,000 hectares, support land due to an increase in the use of recycled materials
conservation and restoration, monitor outcomes on such as cotton and polyester.
500 hectares of land and deliver training to 1,000
BKB farmers. — We set a long-term materials vision to move
towards a resilient and circular material sector that
— We worked with the Textile Exchange’s Leather stays within planetary boundaries, supports human
Impact Accelerator (LIA) to devise a framework for rights and livelihoods, and thrives on innovation—
best practices in leather supply chains and prevent with the pillars of recycled, regenerative and
deforestation practices in supplier farms. responsible sourcing.
— We have achieved a 21% water recycling rate and — Our use of plastic packaging has decreased by 44
21% improvement in water efficiency in our supply percent compared to our 2018 baseline (compared
chain, compared to a 2017 baseline. This equates to to 28 percent in 2021), as a result of ongoing focus
a combined overall 38% relative water consumption on addressing problematic packaging such as
reduction — close to our 40% goal, despite the hangers and plastic bags. We are not reporting our
challenges of regaining momentum in the wake overall percentage change in packaging this year,
of the Covid-19 pandemic. In addition, 49% of our since we are in the process of revising this goal
facilities now harvest rainwater, against our goal of and our packaging strategy — including calculating
50%. a new baseline figure for the overall amount of
packaging used.
— We had challenges in meeting our goal for
100% functional effluent treatment plants (ETPs) — Overall, 85 percent of our packaging used recycled
with “green” grading and compliance with or other more sustainably sourced materials,
wastewater quality. Our investigations identified compared to 68 percent in 2021.
key remediation actions relating to operation
control, which we will execute in the coming years. — In support of our aim to design all our products for
These include engaging a third-party wastewater circularity14 by 2025, we are testing and developing
engineering company for ETP assessments in tools and methods including our circular product
development tool and guide, Circulator. Integrating For details on these KPIs as well as performance
new ways of working to design for circularity against other areas of the company’s environmental
requires a mindset shift, which is a long process. strategy, see our Sustainability Disclosure at hmgroup.
There are challenges with securing early-stage data com/sustainability.
that enables Circulator’s predictive assessment, and
we are exploring how to update our way of working REPORTING IN LINE WITH ARTICLE 8 OF THE EU
to obtain this. We will focus on further developing TAXONOMY REGULATION
and expanding Circulator to other product types, During 2022, H&M Group performed an inventory of
while building knowledge and increasing the its activities according to article 8 of the EU Taxonomy
circular potential of our products. Regulation. The EU Taxonomy Climate Delegated Act
currently covers sectors in which H&M Group does not
— We continued to expand access to the resell operate. Economic activities for our industry sector
platform Sellpy. In 2022, more than eight million are therefore not classified as taxonomy-eligible
second-hand items were traded on the site across with regard to the first two environmental objectives
24 markets. — climate change mitigation and climate change
adaptation. H&M Group has, however, identified
— We collected 14,768 tonnes of material via the several crosscutting (non-business related) activities
existing H&M Group garment collecting initiative that we consider to be eligible for CapEx and OpEx
in 2022 (15,944 tonnes in 2021; 18,800 tonnes in reporting according to the regulation.
2020).1
H&M Group applied the precautionary principle to our
assessment, and activities that are not material for
H&M Group have been left out.
1) Our garment collecting initiative was disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic for part of the
year in 2020 and for the full year in 2021. Since March 2022, our garment collecting has
been paused in Ukraine, Russia & Belarus.
PROPORTION OF TURNOVER FROM PRODUCTS OR SERVICES ASSOCIATED WITH TAXONOMY-ALIGNED ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES -
DISCLOSURE COVERING YEAR 2022
Substantial Contribution Criteria
Economic Activities (1)
Codes
(2)
Turnover
(3)
Absolute
Turnover
(4)
Proportion
of
Mitigation
(5)
Climate
Change
Adaptation
(6)
Climate
Change
Resources
(7)
Water
and
marine
Economy
(8)
Circular
Pollution
(9)
Ecosystems
(10)
Biodiversity
and
Currency % % % % % % %
A. Taxonomy-eligible activities %
A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities
(Taxonomy-aligned)
- 0 0
Turnover of environmentally sustainable
activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)
A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally
sustainable activities (Not-Taxonomy aligned
activities)
- 0 0
Turnover of taxonomy-eligible but not
environmentally sustainable activities
(Not-Taxonomy Aligned activities ) (A.2)
TOTAL A.1 + A.2 0 0
B. Taxonomy non-eligible activities
Turnover of taxonomy non-eligible activities (B) 223,553 100.00%
In addition, activities that do not exceed a total aligned premises. All other eligible activities have been
financial threshold of SEK 50 million have not been deemed immaterial.
included.
For further information about CapEx, please see the
Accounting Principles H&M Group balance report on page 110.
Turnover
As Footwear and Apparel sector is not yet in scope, OpEx
H&M Group did not identify any taxonomy-eligible H&M Group owns very few buildings and seldom
turnover. controls more than 30% of the premises in a building.
Based on this, very little of the relevant taxonomy
For further information about turnover, please see the OpEx is eligible and deemed material. No OpEx has
H&M Group income statement on page 108. therefore been allocated to any eligible activity. In H&M
Group’s reporting, the total OpEx includes repair and
CapEx maintenance, as well as R&D expenses.
For fiscal year 2022, H&M Group identified two
material investments to report on under the EU For further information about OpEx, please see the
Taxonomy Climate Delegated Act. These are the H&M Group income statement on page 108.
company’s LED fitting project, under activity 7.3,
and all new and renegotiated right of use assets, Assessment of compliance
under activity 7.7. For activity 7.3, the change to H&M Group has applied EU Taxonomy accounting
energy efficient light fittings was determined eligible rules for Turnover, CapEx and OpEx and has identified
according to the relevant technical criteria. For activity several cross-cutting (non-economic) activities that fall
7.7, right of use assets fall under eligible activity within the scope for the Apparel and Footwear sector.
classification relating to leased usage of potentially
DNSH
(Does Not Significantly Harm)
Mitigation
(11)
Climate
Change
Adaptation
(12)
Climate
Change
Resources
(13)
Water
and
marine
(14)
Circular
Economy
Pollution
(15)
Ecosystems
(16)
Biodiversity
and
Safeguards
(17)
Mimium
Taxonomy Taxonomy
Aligned Aligned
Proportion of Proportion of Category Category
Turnover Year Turnover Year (enabling (transitional 2022 (18) 2021(19) activity) (20) activity) (21)
Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Percent Percent E T
0
0
PROPORTION OF OPEX FROM PRODUCTS OR SERVICES ASSOCIATED WITH TAXONOMY-ALIGNED ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES -
DISCLOSURE COVERING YEAR 2022
Substantial Contribution Criteria
Economic Activities (1) Codes
(2)
OpEx
(3)
Absolute OpEx
(4)
Proportion
of
Mitigation
(5)
Climate
Change
Adaptation
(6)
Climate
Change
Resources
(7)
Water
and
marine
Economy
(8)
Circular
Pollution
(9)
Ecosystems
(10)
Biodiversity
and
PROPORTION OF CAPEX FROM PRODUCTS OR SERVICES ASSOCIATED WITH TAXONOMY-ALIGNED ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES -
DISCLOSURE COVERING YEAR 2022
Substantial Contribution Criteria
Economic Activities (1)
Currency % % % % % % %
A. Taxonomy-eligible activities %
A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities
(Taxonomy-aligned)
- 0 0
OpEx of environmentally sustainable
activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)
A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally
sustainable activities (Not-Taxonomy aligned
activities)
- 0 0
OpEx of taxonomy-eligible but not
environmentally sustainable activities
(Not-Taxonomy Aligned activities ) (A.2)
TOTAL A.1 + A.2 0 0
B. Taxonomy non-eligible activities
OpEx of taxonomy non-eligible
activities (B) 216,403 100.00%
Codes
(2)
CapEx
(3)
Absolute CapEx
(4)
Proportion
of
Mitigation
(5)
Climate
Change
Adaptation
(6)
Climate
Change
Resources
(7)
Water
and
marine
Economy
(8)
Circular
Pollution
(9)
Ecosystems
(10)
Biodiversity
and
Currency % % % % % % %
A. Taxonomy-eligible activities %
A.1 Environmentally sustainable activities
(Taxonomy-aligned)
- 0 0
CapEx of environmentally sustainable
activities (Taxonomy-aligned) (A.1)
A.2 Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally
sustainable activities (Not-Taxonomy aligned
activities)
Ownership of buildings 7.7 3,555 3.87%
LED fitting project 7.3 445 0.48%
CapEx of taxonomy-eligible but not
environmentally sustainable activities
(Not-Taxonomy Aligned activities ) (A.2)
TOTAL A.1 + A.2 4,000 4.35%
B. Taxonomy non-eligible activities
CapEx of taxonomy non-eligible activities (B) 87,892 95.65%
Total (A+B) 91,892 100.00%
DNSH
(Does Not Significantly Harm)
Mitigation
(11)
Climate
Change
Adaptation
(12)
Climate
Change
Resources
(13)
Water
and
marine
(14)
Circular
Economy
Pollution
(15)
Ecosystems
(16)
Biodiversity
and
Safeguards
(17)
Mimium
DNSH
(Does Not Significantly Harm)
Taxonomy Taxonomy
Aligned Aligned Category
Proportion of Proportion of (enabling Category
OpEx OpEx activity) (transitional Year 2022 (18) Year 2021 (19) (20) activity) (21)
Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Percent Percent E T
0
0
Mitigation
(11)
Climate
Change
Adaptation
(12)
Climate
Change
Resources
(13)
marine
Water
and
Economy
(14)
Circular
Pollution
(15)
Ecosystems
(16)
Biodiversity
and
Safeguards
(17)
Mimium
Taxonomy Taxonomy
Aligned Aligned Category
Proportion of Proportion of (enabling Category
CapEx CapEx activity) (transitional Year 2022 (18) Year 2023 (19) (20) activity) (21)
Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Y/N Percent Percent E T
0
0
Below, please find a detailed explanation of eligibility Our commitment to respect internationally recognised
for each of the identified activities. human rights is the foundation of everything we do.
We base our approach on the UN Guiding Principles on
7.2 Renovation of existing buildings. Business and Human Rights (UNGP) and communicate
H&M Group owns very few buildings, none of which our commitment via our Human Rights Policy, available
have undergone any major renovations. Any eligible at hmgroup.com. Our actions are primarily focused on
activities have therefore been deemed immaterial. the human rights at risk of the most severe negative
impact linked to our business, our salient issues. For
7.3 Installation, maintenance and repair of energy more details on our Salient Human Rights Issues
efficient equipment. analysis see https://hmgroup.com/sustainability/fair-
H&M Group is undertaking various energy efficiency and-equal/human-rights/. See also pages 76-78 for
projects, many of which are immaterial or of financial further details on our operational risks.
support rather than investment nature. H&M Group
has, however, carried out an LED project that entails The people involved in our value chain are essential to
changing all lights to energy efficient LED fittings in our success as a business. By upholding their rights,
all H&M Group stores. This project falls under the EU working to ensure fair and decent jobs, and promoting
Taxonomy activity 7.3 description, and is therefore inclusion and diversity, we attract and retain talent,
included in our taxonomy reporting. and help individuals to reach their potential. A diverse,
inclusive workforce helps the company to create a
7.6 Installation, maintenance and repair of renewable relevant and relatable customer offering.
energy technologies.
H&M Group is undertaking various renewable energy There is much room for improvement on social impact
projects, most of which are immaterial or of financial and human rights in the garment and textile sector. At
support rather than investment nature and are not the same time, the fashion industry provides millions of
included in CapEx. Any other eligible activities have entry-level jobs, especially for women, and contributes
been deemed immaterial. to economic development in emerging and evolving
communities. We recognise the importance of
7.7 Acquisition and ownership of buildings. responsible business conduct by our industry and our
H&M Group owns very few buildings and no new company, to both respect and advance human rights
buildings have been acquired or constructed during where we operate.
2022. Any eligible activities have therefore been
deemed immaterial. H&M Group does, however, have Strategy & policies
an extensive amount of right of use assets, as all H&M We have a responsibility to respect the rights of
Group´s store locations are leased. All of H&M Group’s everyone involved in and affected by our value chain,
new or renegotiated right of use assets are reported. driven by our commitment to be a fair and equal
company. We work to accelerate positive impacts and
Activities falling under CapEx related to products and inclusion and equality for all those impacted by our
services purchased from third parties, including right business and value chain, with a focus on labour rights,
of use assets, cannot currently be verified as aligned the unequal treatment of people, and human rights
with the criteria for significant contribution and do no negatively impacted by resource use or environmental
significant harm, and are therefore reported as eligible. degradation.
For more information on H&M Group’s requirements As part of our due diligence process, we regularly
on minimum social safeguards, please see the review who the rights holders are across our value
Statutory Sustainability Report on page 86. chain and how they could be impacted by our
business, updating our salient issues accordingly. Our
SOCIAL IMPACT supply chain management programme enables us to
Risks & opportunities assess, address and remedy human rights issues at
Social risks to people and human rights across our the supplier level. We focus our strategies on tackling
value chain are primarily linked to working conditions, the issues with greatest risk of negative impacts on
inclusion, diversity, impacts on communities connected people:
to environmental degradation, and vulnerable groups
FAIR & EQUAL KPIS
KPI1 2020 2021 2022 GOAL
Own operations: % of employees agreeing 80 83 84 Annual
with the statement “I am treated with respect increase
and dignity”
Own operations: % of female employees, in Employees: 74 Employees: 74 Employees: 75 Monitor
management positions and on the board of Management: 71 Management: 71 Management: 75
directors2 Board: 67 Board: 55 Board: 55
Own operations: % of employees that have - Brands: 15 Brands: 22 Monitor
received our Layers inclusion and diversity Functions: 66 Functions: 71
training3 Markets: 21 Total number of
Total number of participants in Layers
participants in Layers training in 2022: 21,476
training in 2021: 23,253
Supply chain: % of tier 1 supplier factories that 32 37 42 Monitor
have trade union representation4
Supply chain: % of tier 1 supplier factories that 18 27 34 Monitor
have collective bargaining agreements in place4
Supply chain: % of tier 1 supplier factories with - - 98 Monitor
Health and Safety Committees in place5
Supply chain: % of female workers, Workers: 63 Workers: 63 Workers: 62 See footnote 6
supervisors, and worker representatives in our Supervisors: 24 Supervisors: 28 Supervisors: 27
tier 1 supplier factories Representatives: 59 Representatives: 62 Representatives: 63
Community investment initiatives: total - Beneficiaries: 368,000 Beneficiaries: 745,517 Monitor
number of beneficiaries and total value of Contributions: Contributions:
contributions7 SEK 180.4 million SEK 114.2 million
1) We continue to update the selection of KPIs reported in this statutory report to provide a more meaningful overview of our key human rights and social focus areas. Additional KPIs and data
are disclosed in our Sustainability Disclosure at hmgroup.com/sustainability.
2) At H&M Group we recognise that gender is not binary and that gender identities exist between and outside of male and female. We are investigating how we can adapt our systems to be
more inclusive of all genders, while also complying with local laws and regulations. Meanwhile we will continue to report on the data we have available today.
3) We updated this KPI in 2022 to report the % of employees across brands and functions participating in our Layers training. We removed the separate figure for markets, since there is such a
high degree of overlap with the data from brands.
4) Applicable legal standards include: the ILO core conventions; C87 Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organize Convention, 1948; C98 Right to Organize and Collective
Bargaining Convention, 1949. Where these standards have not yet been ratified, following Social & Labor Convergence Program verification guidelines, we referred to the national
applicable legislation in force.
5) New KPI introduced in 2022.
6) Increasing the share of female supervisors and worker representatives is an ambition in the group’s Women’s Empowerment Strategy for the production supply chain. The baseline was
established in 2020 and the aim is for yearly increases.
7) Includes in-kind giving SEK 50.3 million, cash contributions SEK 52.7 million, management overheads SEK 9.0 million, employee volunteering SEK 2.1 million.
— Social impact in our own operations and supply through products and communication, and advance
chains. We focus on supporting the people inclusion in our communities.
working in our operations and supply chains —
with a focus on our production supply chain — so — Community engagement. We partner with others
that they can experience decent, meaningful to improve social and environmental impacts in local
jobs with fair compensation and benefits in safe, communities where we operate, and to advance the
secure workplaces free from discrimination, where rights of wider communities of people.
everyone has the right to freedom of association.
Our work is aligned with the International Labour — Working towards a circular, net-zero fashion
Organization (ILO)’s Fundamental Principles and industry. The state of the natural environment
Rights at Work, and informed by its definition of fundamentally impacts people’s wellbeing and
decent work, alongside other external guidance. equitable access to essential resources. By
exploring the social implications and opportunities
— Inclusion and diversity. We are committed to of a future fashion sector, we can enable a just
creating inclusive, diverse and equitable workplaces transition to a circular, net-zero industry, alongside
in our operations and supply chains. Together with supporting communities, supply chains and our
our brands, we promote diversity and equality business to be more resilient against the effects of
We report in line with regulatory frameworks such More than 99% of our apparel orders are processed
as the UK and Australia Modern Slavery Acts and in this manner.1
the Norwegian Transparency Act; learn more
about the company’s statement at hmgroup.com/ — This year, 89 percent of tier 1 production suppliers
sustainability. Find more details on our Fair & Equal surveyed said they regard H&M Group as a fair
strategy in our Sustainability Disclosure at hmgroup. business partner.
com/sustainability. For details on related policies and
standards, visit hmgroup.com. — We are shifting our activities from measuring the
presence of workplace dialogue programmes
Performance and wage management systems (which does not
The Fair & Equal KPI table (see page 99) features in itself ensure positive impact) towards more
indicators selected to offer an overview of our holistic strategies focused on positive outcomes
performance. Here, we share additional details: and impacts. Workers are aware of the processes
in place for grievance handling in 98% of in-scope
— We made our Sustainability Commitment for tier 1 supplier factories, and 95% of factories have
Business Partners more pertinent to different grievance mechanisms created through social
operational contexts and experiences by tailoring dialogue between unions or worker representative
it to different functions and groups — such as structures and management.2
manufacturing, construction and facility services,
landlords, warehouse operations and transport. — In response to last year’s ACT (Action,
These updated versions are being rolled out across Collaboration, Transformation)-facilitated
the Group. self-assessment on purchasing practices, we
implemented the first of five purchasing practices
— To go beyond local labour laws and harmonise trainings for buying and planning functions across
our approach across the group, we reviewed and our brands. 498 colleagues in relevant roles,3
updated our Social Policies for our own operations completed training module 1, which covers H&M
— guided by international standards, such as the Group’s role and commitments as a member of ACT
ILO core conventions. as well as our responsibilities in improving working
conditions across our supply chain.
— Despite unionisation rates decreasing worldwide,
particularly in our sector, rates in our factories have — We launched a new global inclusion and diversity
remained stable. 42 percent of our tier 1 supplier (I&D) dashboard to track key indicators to help us
factories have trade union representation and 34 identify relevant actions and set local targets to
percent have collective bargaining agreements in track our progress. Local initiatives may include
place (CBAs). training completion, gender pay assessments,
talent acquisition processes, and increasing
— We made more than 99% of our payments to equitable representation within the workforce
suppliers on time. On average suppliers get paid across gender, age and nationality. At the end of
in around 15 days after invoicing and delivery 2022, our total workforce was 75:25 female:male
of goods. This is partly a result of a favourable and our leadership was 75:25 female:male.4 Our
factoring arrangement negotiated by H&M Group workforce spans across several generations:
on behalf of our suppliers. We continued to itemise Generation Z (1997-2015) accounts for 25.7 percent,
labour costs for our orders by dividing production Millennials (1981-1996) 61.2 percent, Generation
costs into different costing blocks such as material,
labour and product treatments, like printing or
washing. This costing calculation improves the 1) To enable differentiation of costing blocks, we rely on information by our suppliers.
Previously, we have reported on the percentage of orders placed using a fact-based
visibility of labour costs and allows improved wages costing tool which has helped us to verify costs and separate labour costs. While this is one
way of measuring, we have learnt that we need to explore additional methods to get the
to be reflected in the prices we pay to our suppliers. full picture. We will continue to work to further improve tracking of labour-cost ringfencing
working together with relevant stakeholders.
2) Figures are based on FSLM data provided by factory management and are not verified by
worker surveys.
3) Business-, brand- and product-developers, controllers, buyers, merchandising teams,
capacity teams, business governance teams and our sustainability team.
4) At H&M Group we recognize that gender is not binary and that gender identities exist
between and outside of male and female. We are investigating how we can adapt our
X (1965-1980) 11.4 percent, and Baby Boomers Tackling the risk of corruption benefits us by
(1946-1964) 1.7 percent. Our colleagues represent strengthening our business ethics and corporate
174 nationalities, with leaders who manage people culture, and enhancing our reputation with
representing 96 nationalities.5 stakeholders. Find further details on our operational
risks on pages 76-78.
— We worked with suppliers to promote their
ownership of gender equality objectives and Strategy & policies
strategies to help them define and implement their Our Ethics & Compliance and Anti-Corruption
own approaches for greater female representation. programme is our main tool for mitigating risks. The
We now score suppliers on three dimensions: ratio programme includes:
of women workers employed, ratio of women
supervisors and gender pay gap. — Code of Ethics Policy. Our Code of Ethics details
the company’s expectations of employees and
— We reached more than 414,000 supply chain business partners when conducting business for
workers with activities and training on gender- and on behalf of the group. The code includes
based violence and sexual harassment (GBVH). details of our zero-tolerance policy on bribery and
corruption, which applies to all business dealings in
— We contributed SEK 114.2 million6 to community all countries in which the company and its partners
investment initiatives, reaching 745,517 operate. It is mandatory that all our business
beneficiaries. partners, and all employees in contact with them,
comply with the Code of Ethics.
For more details about these KPIs as well as
performance against other areas of the company’s — Training and awareness. We provide training to
social strategy, see our Sustainability Disclosure at employees and business partners on our Code of
hmgroup.com/sustainability. Ethics. Employees can access the company’s Code
of Ethics training, Speak Up channel and policies
ANTI-CORRUPTION & ANTI-BRIBERY through our Ethics Portal.
Risks & opportunities
The H&M Group company values guide us to act with — Reporting concerns. We encourage employees,
respect, integrity, transparency and honesty. This is business partners and any third parties to report
both the right thing to do and essential to our ongoing concerns or potential violations of H&M Group’s
business success. policies and/or relevant law through the company´s
Speak Up Channel (www.speakup.hmgroup.com).7
Corruption risks exist in many of the markets in We constantly raise awareness and encourage
which the company and its suppliers operate. We our colleagues and business partners to use the
map corruption risk across our operations through channel. Awareness programmes and workshops
annual risk assessments and audits, and identify the are held throughout the year. More materials for
greatest risks based on location or type of operation. employees are available on the H&M Group Ethics
Through our risk assessment process, we first Portal.
identify and document the risk before assessing it
and deciding our response. We then put appropriate — Due diligence. We undertake corruption risk
follow-up actions in place and set a timeframe for assessment as part of the due diligence process for
reviewing the risk. Violations of our Code of Ethics all new business partners, with assessment of risk
and concerns submitted via the H&M Group Speak Up level by country, industry and position/function. We
channel are additional sources of risk identification. set short- and long-term goals to help mitigate any
We supplement this analysis by using insights from identified risks. H&M Group continues to explore
additional metrics such as Transparency International’s use of third-party risk management tools that could
Corruption Perceptions Index and from global risk automate our due diligence process for business
consultancies. partners and other third parties.
5) Does not include colleagues in Germany.
— Follow-up procedures. We assess and investigate — To raise awareness of the Code of Ethics, with
all reported Code of Ethics cases internally, tracking a focus on conflicts of interest, we conducted a
the number of violations annually and reporting series of ethics workshops.
these annually to the CEO, CFO, board of directors
and via our Annual and Sustainability Report. These — We introduced digital attestation of the Code
investigations may lead to terminations of business of Ethics Policy Commitment Form and Code of
relationships or employment. We conduct internal Ethics e-learning completion for store managers
audits to ensure compliance. Code of Ethics Policy and office employees. Some high-risk groups also
digital attestation and Code of Ethics e-learning are completed a digital Code of Ethics Workshop.
mandatory, and we track the status of completions.
— H&M Group provides a Speak Up Channel to enable
For more details on our policies visit hmgroup.com. the reporting of violations in a confidential way. This
is available to employees, business partners and
Performance other third parties.
The key data table (see below) features indicators
selected to offer an overview of our performance. — We held our first Global Ethics Week to help secure
Here, we share additional details: awareness of the company’s Code of Ethics, our
new Speak Up channel, and mandatory trainings.
— Most investigated cases concerned breaches The entire company was invited to participate via a
of the H&M Group Code of Ethics Policy, such global announcement.
as requesting personal favours, gifts and
entertainment, taking product samples for personal For all detailed sustainability content, see our
use as well as conflicts of interest. Sustainability Disclosure at hmgroup.com/
sustainability.
KEY ANTI-CORRUPTION DATA
INDICATOR 2020 2021 2022 GOAL
Total reported incidents of potential 16, with 24, with 5 29 cases involving employees
non-compliance with the Code of Ethics terminations terminations and 3 and/or business partners,
(including reported corruption cases) - or written written warnings with 2 employee terminations,
employees and business partners*1 warnings in 16 7 employee warnings and 1
cases 5 cases remain business partner warning;
open into 2022 6 cases remain open into 2023
Cases by department* - Sales and Retail: 12
Production: 8
Central Offices: 8
Logistics: 1
- Online: 0
Substantiated cases* - - 10
Code of Ethics e-learning completion rate −
employees 60 N/A2 67% 90% annually
* Reviewed by the company’s auditors through a limited assurance process.
1) Cases can involve multiple employees and business partners. We have therefore changed our reporting method to focus on the total number of cases rather than specifying how many
individuals or business partners were involved.
2) Due to a change in system in 2021, an accurate figure for this year is not available.
TCFD climate risk analysis
Governance — The rapid transition scenario (RCP 2.6, mostly
Climate risk has been identified as one of the short- and medium-term). In this scenario the world
company’s most significant risks. All company risks manages to drastically reduce GHG emissions
are reviewed by the board at least once per year. through several far-reaching measures, such as
The board monitors implementation of strategies legislation, global carbon taxes, and major shifts
within the sustainability area and initiates changes in consumption patterns and lifestyles. This would
and updates where needed. These procedures and limit the average temperature increase to 1.5°C.
governance mechanisms enable the board to maintain
close oversight of the company’s sustainability — The accelerating temperature increase scenario
and climate-related performance, and to ensure (RCP 8.5, mostly long-term). In this scenario the
sufficient management focus and resource allocation. world fails to curb rising GHG emissions. In the
Implementation of all company sustainability long term (to 2100), this results in a global average
strategies, including our climate strategy, is the temperature increase of at least 3-4°C. Legislation
responsibility of the head of sustainability together and carbon taxes are expected to play a less
with the executive management team. The head significant role in this scenario. Impacts from
of sustainability reports directly to the CEO and extreme weather events are assumed to grow in
provides biannual updates on our sustainability key magnitude.
performance indicators (KPIs) to the board of directors
and quarterly KPI updates to the CEO and CFO. See In our scenarios, we analysed possible impacts in the
also the Corporate Governance Report and read more short term (1-3 years), medium term (in around 10 years)
about our risk management processes on pages 67 and long term (in around 30 years).
and 76-77.
The risk analysis was performed by mapping our
Strategy value chain, before conducting several workshops
In 2019 we performed a risk analysis following to evaluate and rank risks in all parts of the value
the Task Force on Climate-Related Disclosure chain. The main areas analysed were raw material
(TCFD) recommendations. This analysis has then sourcing, production, logistics, sales, and customers
been updated during 2021 and 2022. We focused (including more general transition risks such as taxes
predominantly on two scenarios: and legislation). Business opportunities related to
climate change were also discussed and evaluated
in the workshops. The results of the risk analysis are
summarised in the following tables:
The rapid transition scenario
RCP2.6, mostly short- and medium-term risks
RISK RANKING RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION MEASURES
Changes in customer Growing awareness of climate change is expected — Our climate goals are to reduce our absolute GHG
attitudes and to impact customer preferences, with an increased emissions by 56% by 2030 (2019 as baseline) and
purchasing patterns preference for products and services with low climate 90% by 2040, when the goal also is to achieve net-
impact from trusted companies that are seen as leaders zero. These emissions reduction targets have been
HIGH in sustainability. This could also include reputational risks approved by the Science Based Targets initiative
related to brand perception. (SBTi). H&M group also aims to become a more
circular business which, for example, means sourcing
raw materials that are recycled or more sustainably
sourced and scaling up customer-facing circular
business models.
— Our strategies within the sustainability area will allow
us to build trust in our brands and provide an offering
that has a lower environmental impact than our
competitors’ offerings.
RISK RANKING RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION MEASURES
Transition to lower Fossil fuels remain a significant source of energy in — Transparency and clear customer communication
carbon footprint many H&M Group production countries. Climate-re- about sustainability will help to build trust and
production and/ lated legislation is expected to increase significantly. increase customer loyalty.
or low emission In response, H&M Group would gradually strengthen
technologies requirements for suppliers, as part of the company’s — Together with its suppliers, H&M Group is making
ambition to reduce climate impact. The group provides significant efforts to phase out coal and other fossil
HIGH financial support that assists suppliers in phasing out fuels in our supply chain. The total spend in 2022
coal and other fossil fuels. The expected overall result is on decarbonization, including e.g. energy efficiency
increased production costs. Investments would also be investments in our stores, supporting our suppliers
needed to develop more sustainable materials for use in to phase out coal and increasing the share of more
our garments. sustainable materials, was approximately SEK 2.6
billion.
Introduction of global Taxes on GHG emissions or import tolls on garments — We have developed an internal tool – the Climate
or regional carbon produced in one region (e.g. Asia) but exported to anoth- Roadmap tool – to help us better understand the
taxes er (e.g. the European Union) may influence total produc- most cost-effective paths towards reducing our
tion costs. This could be both a risk and an opportunity, climate impact.
MEDIUM depending on the ability of H&M Group to phase out
fossil fuels in our supply chain. — We will collaborate with peers to amplify support for
suppliers to phase out fossil fuels.
— We have set targets to reduce GHG emissions
throughout our value chain, reducing our vulnerability
to possible carbon taxes.
— Our sourcing strategy is flexible and we are
constantly evaluating the direct and indirect costs of
each region to allocate our production in the most
efficient way.
Increased energy and As the world is moving away from coal to lower carbon — We have set targets and have programs in place to
water cost energy sources, both renewable and fossil based, the increase energy efficiency throughout our value
demand for these energy sources will increase. Due chain, in order to reduce the impact from increasing
MEDIUM to the different grid developments and availability of energy prices. For critical regions and suppliers we
renewable energy sources in regions in which we have are also developing energy transition roadmaps.
production, there is a risk of regional or local gaps
between demand for energy and supply that could — We have adopted a new water strategy including
lead to increased prices. Similarly, a supply and demand targets to reduce water consumption at our
gap or increased taxation on water might also increase suppliers, see page 14.
prices in the regions where our suppliers are located.
Both increases may impact production and operating — We are setting up power purchase agreements
costs and thus the prices of our products. (PPAs) and other long-term price hedges, as well
as direct and indirect investments into renewable
energy sources to bolster supply where needed.
The accelerating temperature increase scenario
RCP 8.5, mostly long-term risks
RISK RANKING RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION MEASURES
Raw material H&M Group is heavily dependent on cotton as a raw — H&M Group has a strong focus on innovation related
availability and price material. Higher temperatures and water shortages will to new materials and recycling technologies, with a
affect cotton production in many regions. In the long goal of using at least 30 percent recycled materials
MEDIUM term, the company believes that this will affect the by 2025. By increasing the share of recycled
availability and price of cotton. Price increases for other materials, our dependence on virgin raw materials is
raw materials are also expected. reduced.
— Our global sourcing team enables the company to
easily change raw material suppliers when necessary
to handle short-term price fluctuations.
RISK RANKING RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION MEASURES
Water scarcity or Climate change will increasingly impact access to — We have adopted a new water strategy including
extreme weather freshwater in certain regions, with consequences targets to reduce water consumption at our
events that influence for where and how garments can be produced. suppliers, see page 14.
production and Extreme weather events may also cause disruptions to
logistics production and distribution in some countries. — For suppliers located in high-risk regions,
contingency plans have been developed. These
MEDIUM plans prepare the company to temporarily or
permanently move production to alternative
suppliers located in low-risk regions, if needed.
Overview of business opportunities
OPPORTUNITY DESCRIPTION MEASURES TO REALISE THE OPPORTUNITY
Building a more Increasing awareness of the climate crisis may impact — Delivering on H&M Group’s strategy and meeting
sustainable business customer preferences for products or services with a climate-related customer expectations could lead to
and attracting more low climate impact, from companies that customers a bigger market share.
customers trust and that share their values. There is an opportunity
for H&M Group to attract more customers by providing — Transparency and clear communication about
a more sustainable and transparent offering. sustainability could increase customer loyalty.
Developing new Increasing awareness of the climate crisis may change — H&M Group is continually testing and scaling new
customer-facing customer behaviour as people are incentivised to switch business models and new revenue streams, such as
circular business to new ways of enjoying fashion without the climate resell, garment care and repair services.
models impact associated with garment production. This shift
will reduce H&M Group’s climate impact and offer the
company new revenue streams that complement the
traditional business model.
Decarbonisation of Our targets to reduce GHG emissions throughout the — Together with its suppliers, H&M Group is making
garment production value chain could create a competitive advantage versus significant efforts to phase out coal and other fossil
to reduce the impact our competitors, mainly because of reduced impact fuels in our supply chain.
of carbon taxes and from future climate legislation and taxes on emissions.
higher energy prices — Our climate strategy, long-term as well as short-
term targets, and a willingness to invest in carbon
reduction initiatives will enable the decarbonisation
of our supply chain.
— We are engaging with policymakers in our
production markets, aiming to create the right
conditions for the transformation (e.g by. removing
subsidies for fossil fuels).
Creation of new Increasing awareness of the climate crisis may put — H&M Group continually develops new business
business-to-business pressure on our competitors’ sustainability strategies. models and revenue streams, such as collecting,
revenue streams This, combined with the decarbonisation of H&M sorting and recycling garments. This includes
Group’s production, will increase opportunities to constantly exploring and investing in external
expand our current business-to-business service innovations and ideas.
offering. By further investing in reverse supply chain
initiatives, H&M Group can introduce potential new
revenue streams that complement the traditional
business model.
Impact on business strategy & financial planning The resilience of our strategy
Climate-related risks have a major impact on H&M We are confident that our climate strategy alongside
Group’s business strategy. We have set science- the measures described above offer a resilient
based targets approved by the SBTi, aiming to reduce business strategy. We have analysed the possible
absolute scope 1, 2 & 3 GHG emissions 56% by 2030 consequences in the following two scenarios:
and 90% by 2040 (from a 2019 baseline), and also
achieve net-zero by 2040 (read more on p. 42). — The rapid transition scenario (RCP 2.6)
H&M Group aims to halve its supply chain GHG
We need to reduce our climate impact in line with emissions by 2030 (in absolute terms, from a 2019
what science demands. This is something that our baseline, independent of business growth). This
customers expect from us, and we expect our strategy means we will be well prepared for developments
could attract more customers and positively impact such as strengthened climate-related legislation
our sales in the long term. and/or the introduction of carbon taxes. The most
significant risk to the company, as well as business
This is also a sound business decision, as we expect opportunity, is lost or increased customer trust that
to see higher energy prices, strengthened climate impacts their willingness to enjoy products from
legislation and increased introduction of climate- H&M Group.
related taxes or tolls. Decarbonising our supply chain
could therefore offer a competitive advantage to — The accelerating temperature increase scenario
H&M Group. The following are examples of how our (RCP 8.5)
business is impacted: The most significant consequence for our business
in this scenario is the possible impact on raw
— Scaling circular business models, such as resell, material availability and price, especially for cotton.
remake, care and repair solutions enabling We are limiting the possible business impact of
customers to extend the use of products (read this by reducing our dependency on cotton and
more on p. 31) can decouple our financial growth other virgin raw materials. In this scenario, our work
from resource use and climate impact. to create business contingency plans for all parts
of our supply chain will help us prevent negative
— During 2021 H&M Group issued a sustainability- business impacts resulting from extreme weather
linked bond (with a value of EUR 500 M) enabling events. As H&M Group has a limited amount of
financing of sustainability-related initiatives company-owned assets (production is at external
throughout the value chain. suppliers, warehouses and stores are normally
leased), the expected financial impact on company-
— Together with its suppliers, H&M Group is making owned assets related to this scenario is minimal.
significant efforts to phase out coal and other fossil
fuels in our supply chain. The total spend 2022 on
decarbonisation, including e.g. energy efficiency
investments in our stores, supporting our suppliers
to phase out coal and increasing the share of more
sustainable materials, was approximately SEK 2.6
billion.
— Regular review of performance towards targets
set by the board of directors and the executive
management team, ensuring sufficient resource
allocation and progress.
— Incentive programmes for key executives
connected to business goals (including risk) and
sustainability performance (including climate).
TCFD disclosures index
REFERENCE/LINK
Governance The board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities Page 103
The organisation’s governance
Management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and Page 103
around climate-related risks and
opportunities
opportunities
Strategy The climate-related risks and opportunities that the organisation has identified Pages 103-105
The actual and potential over the short, medium and long term
impacts of climate-related
The impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s Page 106
risks and opportunities on the
businesses, strategy, and financial planning
organisation’s businesses,
strategy, and financial planning The resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking into consideration different Page 106
climate-related scenarios, including a 2oC scenario or lower
Risk management The organisation´s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks Page 103
The processes used by the
The organisation´s processes for managing climate-related risks Page 42, 103 and in
organisation to identify, assess,
our Sustainability
and manage climate-related risks
Disclosure
How processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are Page 67, 76-77
integrated into the organisation’s overall risk management
Metrics and targets The metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risks and Page 92
The metrics and targets used opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process
to assess and manage relevant
Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions and the related risks Page 92 and in
climate-related risks and
our Sustainability
opportunities
Disclosure
The targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and Page 42 and in
opportunities and performance against targets our Sustainability
Disclosure
Group income statement
SEK M
1 DECEMBER–30 NOVEMBER 2022 2021
Net sales, note 3, 4 223,553 198,967
Cost of goods sold, note 6, 7, 9 -110,276 -93,961
GROSS PROFIT 113,277 105,006
Selling expenses, note 6, 7, 9 -94,542 -80,535
Administrative expenses, note 6, 7, 9, 10 -11,566 -9,216
OPERATING PROFIT 7,169 15,255
Interest income and similar items 162 203
Interest expense and similar items -1,115 -1,158
PROFIT AFTER FINANCIAL ITEMS 6,216 14,300
Tax, note 11 -2,650 -3,290
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 3,566 11,010
All profit for the year is attributable to the shareholders of the parent company
H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB.
Earnings per share, SEK1 2.16 6.65
Average number of shares outstanding, thousands1 1,649,847 1,655,072
1) Before and after dilution, excluding own shares.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
SEK M
1 DECEMBER–30 NOVEMBER 2022 2021
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 3,566 11,010
Other comprehensive income
Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss
Translation differences 3,902 1,430
Change in hedging reserves, note 21 -478 -101
Tax attributable to change in hedging reserves 87 26
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans, note 20 55 187
Tax related to the above remeasurement -9 -43
Remeasurement of financial assets, note 21 2,697 3,644
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 860 5,143
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 4,426 16,153
All comprehensive income is attributable to the shareholders of the parent company H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB.
COMMENTS ON THE GROUP INCOME STATEMENT of 2023 onwards this is expected to result in annual
Although 2022 was a turbulent year characterised savings of around SEK 2 billion. The results were
by negative external factors such as geopolitical however impacted by a one-time cost of SEK 836 m.
challenges and substantial cost inflation, net sales
for the full 2021/2022 financial year increased by 12 Selling and administrative expenses increased by 18
percent to SEK 223,553 m (198,967). In local currencies, percent to SEK 106,108 m (89,751). In local currencies,
sales increased by 6 percent. The decision to wind expenses increased by 12 percent.
down the business in Russia, which was an important
and profitable market, had a significant negative Operating profit was SEK 7,169 m (15,255),
impact on the results. A one-time cost of around corresponding to an operating margin of 3.2 percent
SEK 1.8 billion has been charged to earnings for the (7.7). Adjusted for the one-time costs of winding down
financial year in respect of the wind-down. The hikes the Russian operations and the cost and efficiency
in raw materials and freight costs combined with programme, operating profit for the full year was SEK
a historically strong US dollar resulted in extensive 9,760 m and the operating margin was 4.4 percent.
cost increases for purchases of goods. Gross
profit increased to SEK 113,277 m (105,006). This TAX
corresponds to a gross margin of 50.7 percent (52.8). The H&M group’s tax rate for the 2021/2022 financial
year was 42.6 percent (23.0). Among other things the
The gross profit and gross margin are a result of many final tax rate depends on the results of the group’s
different factors, internal as well as external, and are various companies, the corporate tax rates in each
mostly affected by the decisions that the H&M group country, non-deductible costs and tax expense relating
takes in line with its strategy to always have the best to previous years. The relatively high tax rate for the
customer offering in each individual market – based year is due mainly to significantly lower profit after
on the combination of fashion, quality, price and financial items compared with the previous year – a
sustainability. decrease that is partly attributable to Russia – in
relation to non-deductible costs and tax expense
A cost and efficiency programme was initiated to relating to previous years.
further streamline the business. From the second half
Net sales Gross profit and gross Selling and Operating profit and
SEK M margin % administrative expenses operating margin %
SEK M SEK M SEK M
50.7%
+12% 52.8% +18%
113,277
223,553 105,006 106,108 7.7%
198,967
89,751 15,255
3.2%
7,169
2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022
Group balance sheet
SEK M SEK M
30 NOVEMBER 2022 2021 30 NOVEMBER 2022 2021
ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
NON-CURRENT ASSETS EQUITY
Intangible non-current assets Share capital, note 19 207 207
Leasehold and similar rights, note 12 161 224 Reserves 5,856 2,345
Capitalised development expenditure, Retained earnings 44,694 57,466
note 12 8,931 9,268
TOTAL EQUITY 50,757 60,018
Goodwill, note 12 64 64
9,156 9,556 LIABILITIES
Property, plant and equipment Long-term liabilities
Buildings and land, note 13 697 724 Provisions for pensions, note 20 333 428
Equipment, tools, fixture and fittings, Other provisions, note 22 242 –
note 13 23,734 25,852
Deferred tax liabilities, note 11 3,273 3,601
Right-of-use assets, note 15 58,305 53,086
Liabilities to credit institutions, note 24 9,643 9,178
82,736 79,662
Other long-term liabilities 183 180
Non-current financial assets
Other interest-bearing liabilities,
Interests in associates, note 14 503 686 note 15, 24 49,282 45,379
Other shares and interests, note 21 2,654 4,405 62,956 58,766
3,157 5,091 Current liabilities
Other non-current assets Accounts payable 21,090 20,382
Long-term receivables 939 860 Tax liabilities, note 11 1,843 1,441
Deferred tax assets, note 11 6,537 5,626 Liabilities to credit institutions, note 24 1,135 436
7,476 6,486 Other provisions, note 22 594 –
Other interest-bearing liabilities, 12,575 11,698
TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 102,525 100,795 note 15, 24
Other liabilities 6,048 5,149
CURRENT ASSETS Accrued expenses and deferred
income, note 4, 22 25,050 21,891
Stock-in-trade, note 16 42,495 37,306
68,335 60,997
Current receivables
Accounts receivable, note 21 3,014 3,059 TOTAL LIABILITIES 131,291 119,763
Tax assets, note 11 3,212 2,834
Other receivables 4,601 3,509 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 182,048 179,781
Prepaid expenses, note 17 4,494 4,807
15,321 14,209
Cash and cash equivalents, note 18 21,707 27,471
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 79,523 78,986
TOTAL ASSETS 182,048 179,781
COMMENTS ON THE GROUP BALANCE SHEET The group aims to secure financial flexibility and freedom
The H&M group is in a strong financial position. The of action on the best possible terms.
group’s equity/assets ratio was 27.9 percent (33.4). The
share of risk-bearing capital was 29.7 percent (35.4). To improve the maturity structure of the group’s undrawn
Equity apportioned on the outstanding 1,629,687 revolving credit facilities the following financing activities
(1,655,072) thousand shares as of 30 November 2022 took place:
was SEK 31.15 (36.26).
— The EUR 700 m credit facility opened in 2017 that
Stock-in-trade expires in 2023 was closed.
Currency adjusted the stock-in-trade decreased by 3
percent compared with last year. Converted into SEK — Two credit facilities of in total SEK 8,000 m that were
the stock-in-trade amounted to SEK 42,495 m (37,306). opened in 2020 with expiration in 2023 were closed.
The book value of stock-in-trade in SEK represented
19.0 percent (18.7) of sales. — A five-year sustainability-linked EUR 1,300 m credit
facility was opened, with two options to extend for a year
Financing at a time.
As of 30 November 2022 the group had interest-
bearing liabilities, excluding lease liabilities and — A three-year sustainability-linked EUR 300 m credit
provisions for pensions, of SEK 10,778 m (9,614) in facility was opened, with two options to extend for a year
the form of commercial paper, bonds and loans from at a time.
credit institutions. In addition, the group has undrawn
credit facilities of SEK 17,469 m (15,178). The average The H&M group advocates a conservative leverage ratio,
maturity of interest-bearing liabilities and undrawn aiming for a strong capital structure with good liquidity
credit facilities was 4.3 (5.6) years. A maturity analysis and financial flexibility. It is essential that, as in the past,
of outstanding interest-bearing liabilities and undrawn expansion and investments can proceed with continued
credit facilities is given in the table in note 2. freedom of action. The capital structure is defined as
net debt in relation to EBITDA. It should not exceed 1.0
The H&M group’s liquidity is very good. As of 30 x EBITDA over time. Net debt/EBITDA excluding IFRS 16
November 2022, cash and cash equivalents amounted effects was -0.6 (-0.7) as of 30 November 2022.
to SEK 21,707 m (27,471). Together, cash and cash
equivalents and undrawn credit facilities totalled SEK
39,176 m (42,649).
Stock-in-trade
Financial net cash amounted to SEK 10,929 m (17,857). Net SEK M +14%
debt including provisions for pensions and excluding IFRS
42,495
16 amounted to SEK -10,596 m (-17,428).
37,306
Working capital from operating activities amounted to
SEK 24,419 m (19,983).
2021 2022
Group changes in equity
All shareholders’ equity is attributable to the shareholders of the parent company H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB.
SHARE TRANSLATION HEDGING RETAINED TOTAL
SEK M CAPITAL DIFFERENCES RESERVES EARNINGS EQUITY
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 207 2,155 190 57,466 60,018
1 DECEMBER 2021
Profit for the year – – – 3,566 3,566
Other comprehensive income
Translation differences – 3,902 – – 3,902
Change in hedging reserves – – -478 – -478
Tax related to hedging reserves – – 87 – 87
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans – – – 55 55
Tax related to the above remeasurement – – – -9 -9
Remeasurement of financial assets – – – -2,697 -2,697
Other comprehensive income – 3,902 -391 -2,651 860
Comprehensive income – 3,902 -391 915 4,426
Dividend – – – -10,687 -10,687
Repurchase of shares – – – -3,000 -3,000
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 207 6,057 -201 44,694 50,757
30 NOVEMBER 2022
SHARE TRANSLATION HEDGING RETAINED TOTAL
SEK M CAPITAL DIFFERENCES RESERVES EARNINGS EQUITY
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
1 DECEMBER 2020 207 725 265 53,426 54,623
Profit for the year – – – 11,010 11,010
Other comprehensive income
Translation differences – 1,430 – – 1,430
Change in hedging reserves – – -101 – -101
Tax related to hedging reserves – – 26 – 26
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans – – – 187 187
Tax related to the above remeasurement – – – -43 -43
Remeasurement of financial assets – – – 3,644 3,644
Other comprehensive income – 1,430 -75 3,788 5,143
Comprehensive income – 1,430 -75 14,798 16,153
Dividend – – – -10,758 -10,758
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
30 NOVEMBER 2021 207 2,155 190 57,466 60,018
Group cash flow statement
SEK M
1 DECEMBER–30 NOVEMBER 2022 2021
Operating activities
Profit after financial items1 6,216 14,300
Adjustment for non-cash items
- Provisions for pensions, note 20 -68 -13
- Other provisions, note 22 836 –
- Depreciation and amortisation / write-downs, note 9 22,579 22,320
Taxes paid, note 11 -3,499 -4,974
Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 26,064 31,633
Changes in working capital
Operating receivables -452 -736
Stock-in-trade, note 16 -3,734 1,263
Operating liabilities 2,598 12,459
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 24,476 44,619
Investing activities
Investments in leasehold and similar rights, note 12 -27 -178
Investments in other intangible assets, note 12 -1,457 -559
Investments in buildings and land, note 13 – 0
Investments in equipment, note 13 -4,527 -2,727
Other investments, note 21 -802 -614
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES -6,813 -4,078
Financing activities
Short-term loans 680 -7,671
New long-term borrowing, note 24 – 5,127
Repayment of long-term loans, note 24 – -4,604
Amortisation leases, note 15 -12,139 -12,279
Dividend -10,687 -10,758
Repurchase of shares, note 19 -3,000 –
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES, NOTE 24 -25,146 -30,185
CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR -7,483 10,357
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of financial year 27,471 16,540
Cash flow for the year -7,483 10,356
Exchange rate effect 1,719 574
Cash and cash equivalents at year-end, note 18 21,707 27,471
1) Interest paid for the group amounts to SEK 243 m (380). Interest expense related to leases amounts to SEK 872 m (779) for the group. Received interest for the group amounts to SEK 162 m (203).
Parent company income statement
SEK M
1 DECEMBER–30 NOVEMBER 2022 2021
Net sales, note 5 4,024 3,981
GROSS PROFIT 4,024 3,981
Administrative expenses, note 6, 7, 9, 10 -97 -46
OPERATING PROFIT 3,927 3,935
Revenue from interests in group companies 9,032 8,376
Interest income and similar items, note 29 28 38
Interest expense and similar items, note 29 -123 -242
PROFIT AFTER FINANCIAL ITEMS 12,864 12,107
Year-end appropriations, note 25 -3,139 -4
Tax, note 11 -149 -825
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 9,576 11,278
Parent company statement of comprehensive income
SEK M
1 DECEMBER–30 NOVEMBER 2022 2021
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 9,576 11,278
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans, note 20 20 7
Tax related to the above remeasurement -4 -1
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 16 6
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 9,592 11,284
Parent company balance sheet
SEK M SEK M
30 NOVEMBER 2022 2021 30 NOVEMBER 2022 2021
ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
NON-CURRENT ASSETS EQUITY
Property, plant and equipment Restricted equity
Buildings and land, note 13 120 125 Share capital, note 19 207 207
Equipment, tools, fixture and fittings, Restricted reserves 88 88
note 13 36 48
295 295
156 173
Non-restricted equity
Non-current financial assets
Retained earnings 6,417 8,820
Shares and interests, note 26 819 819
Profit for the year 9,592 11,284
Receivables from subsidiaries 78 78
16,009 20,104
Other non-current receivables 104 116
Deferred tax assets, note 11 71 86
TOTAL EQUITY 16,304 20,399
1,072 1,099
UNTAXED RESERVES, NOTE 27 21 32
TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 1,228 1,272
LIABILITIES
CURRENT ASSETS
Long-term liabilities
Current receivables
Provisions for pensions, note 20 116 144
Accounts receivable 9 8
Liabilities to credit institutions, note 24 9,233 9,233
Receivables from subsidiaries 25,592 29,598
9,349 9,377
Other receivables 43 17
Current liabilities
Prepaid expenses, note 17 451 90
Accounts payable 4 4
26,095 29,713
Tax liabilities 345 519
Cash and bank balances, note 18 2 –
Liabilities to credit institutions, note 24 950 275
Other liabilities 176 188
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 26,097 29,713
Accrued expenses and deferred
income, note 22 176 191
TOTAL ASSETS 27,325 30,985
1,651 1,177
TOTAL LIABILITIES 11,000 10,554
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 27,325 30,985
Parent company changes in equity
SHARE RESTRICTED RETAINED TOTAL
SEK M CAPITAL RESERVES EARNINGS EQUITY
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 1 DECEMBER 2021 207 88 20,104 20,399
Profit for the year – – 9,576 9,576
Other comprehensive income
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans – – 20 20
Tax related to the above remeasurement – – -4 -4
Other comprehensive income – – 16 16
Comprehensive income – – 9,592 9,592
Dividend – – -10,687 -10,687
Repurchase of shares – – -3,000 -3,000
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 30 NOVEMBER 2022 207 88 16,009 16,304
SHARE RESTRICTED RETAINED TOTAL
SEK M CAPITAL RESERVES EARNINGS EQUITY
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 1 DECEMBER 2020 207 88 19,578 19,873
Profit for the year – – 11,278 11,278
Other comprehensive income
Remeasurement of defined benefit
pension plans – – 7 7
Tax related to the above remeasurement – – -1 -1
Other comprehensive income – – 6 6
Comprehensive income – – 11,284 11,284
Dividend – – -10,758 -10,758
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 30 NOVEMBER 2021 207 88 20,104 20,399
Parent company cash flow statement
SEK M
1 DECEMBER–30 NOVEMBER 2022 2021
Operating activities
Profit after financial items1 12,864 12,107
Adjustment for non-cash items
- Provisions for pensions, note 20 -8 -18
- Depreciation and amortisation / write-downs, note 9 20 23
Taxes paid, note 11 -312 -289
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES BEFORE CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL 12,564 11,823
Changes in working capital
Operating receivables 3,619 5,504
Operating liabilities -3,177 -101
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 13,006 17,226
Investing activities
Investments in equipment -4 -7
Investments in group companies – 0
Other investments 12 -3
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES 8 -10
Financing activities
Short-term loans, note 24 675 -7,223
New long-term borrowing, note 24 – 5,165
Repayment of long-term loans, note 24 – -4,400
Dividend -10,687 -10,758
Repurchase of shares, note 19 -3,000 –
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES -13,012 -17,216
CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR 2 0
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the financial year 0 –
Cash flow for the year 2 0
Cash and cash equivalents at year-end, note 18 2 0
1) Interest paid for the parent company amounts to SEK 123 m (242). Received interest for the parent company amounts to SEK 7 m (10), note 28.
Notes to the financial statements
CORPORATE INFORMATION group’s financial statements from 2024, and will entail that deferred
The parent company H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB (publ) is a limited tax will be calculated on right-of-use assets and liabilities attributable
company domiciled in Stockholm, Sweden. The parent company’s to leases.
corporate identity number is 556042- 7220. The company’s shares
are listed on the Stockholm stock exchange, Nasdaq Stockholm. The Other new or amended accounting standards that have been
group’s business consists mainly of sales of clothing, accessories, published but not yet entered into force are not expected to have any
footwear, cosmetics, home textiles and homeware to consumers. The material impact on the financial statements.
company’s financial year runs from 1 December to 30 November. The
annual report was approved for publication by the board of directors No new or amended accounting standards that are not yet mandatory
on 23 March 2023 and will be submitted to the annual general meeting have been early adopted by the H&M group.
for approval on 4 May 2023.
Climate change
Ramsbury Invest AB’s holding of shares in H & M Hennes & Mauritz The potential impact of climate change has been considered in
AB represents 51.2 percent of all shares and 76.3 percent of the total preparing the financial statements, particularly in the context of the
voting power. Ramsbury Invest AB (556423-5769) is thus formally the risks in the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
parent company of H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB. climate risk analysis (page 103-107).
1. ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The following areas have been considered:
Changes in customer attitudes and purchasing patterns
Basis for preparation of the accounts Climate-related matters could have an impact on customer behavior
The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance and changes in consumption patterns, thus affecting the revenue of
with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued the group. The changes in customer attitudes and purchasing patterns
by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the could also impact the value of stock, as inventory could become
interpretations provided by the IFRS Interpretations Committee. Since obsolete as a result of a decline in selling prices or demand.
the parent company is a company within the EU, only IFRS approved by
the EU are applied. The consolidated accounts also contain disclosures Introduction of global or regional climate legislation
in accordance with the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s The introduction of climate-related legislation, such as carbon taxes,
recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups. could cause higher production costs, thus affecting the cost of goods
sold for the H&M group. Especially suppliers dependent of fossil fuels
The financial statements are based on historical cost, apart from could be affected by an increase in climate-related legislation.
certain financial instruments which are reported at fair value.
H&M Group has made efforts to help phase out fossil fuels in the
The parent company’s functional currency is Swedish kronor, which supply chain. These efforts have resulted in increased cost of goods
is also the reporting currency for the parent company and for the sold as a result of choosing more sustainable materials as well as
group. Unless otherwise indicated, all amounts are reported in millions long-term loans to suppliers, prepaid expenses, selling expenses, and
of Swedish kronor (SEK m). Where relevant, accounting principles are administrative expenses for 2022.
described within each note.
Increase in raw material, energy, and water costs
Parent company Climate-related matters could impact the availability and price of raw
The parent company applies the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and materials as well as increase energy and water costs and may impact
the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2, the production and logistic costs of suppliers causing an increase
Accounting for Legal Entities, which essentially means that IFRS is of the group’s cost of goods sold. Climate change may also cause
applied. In accordance with RFR 2, the parent company does not apply production and distribution disruptions, also affecting the group’s
IFRS 9 with the exception of the principles in IFRS 9 regarding the purchasing costs.
time of recognition and removal of financial instruments in the balance
sheet and the principles for impairment testing and recognition of Natural disasters
expected credit losses. The parent company will apply the exception in The recoverable amount and useful life of assets could be impacted
RFR 2 in respect of IFRS 16, which means that the principles of IFRS 16 by climate-related matters, such as natural disasters, and could cause
will not be applied in the legal entity. Due to the link between reporting costs for impairment and changes in amounts of depreciation.
and taxation, year-end appropriations and untaxed reserves are
reported in the parent company’s financial statements. In estimating future cash flows, such as for impairment testing
purposes, assessments and assumptions are made that are not linked
Group contributions that the parent company receives from to the scenarios described in the TCFD analysis, as the data that these
subsidiaries and provides to subsidiaries are reported under scenarios are built on are connected with a high degree of uncertainty.
appropriations.
For 2022, climate change has not been assessed to have a significant
Changes in accounting principles and disclosure requirements impact on the financial statements nor on the estimates and
The accounting principles and calculation methods applied in this assumptions made when preparing the annual report and consolidated
report are unchanged from those used in the preparation of the annual accounts.
report and consolidated financial statements for 2021 and which are
described in note 1, Accounting principles. Government assistance in connection with the Covid-19 situation
In relation to IAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure
Future accounting principles and disclosure requirements of Government Assistance – due to the extraordinary situation
The amendments in accounting standard IAS 12 Income Taxes brought about by the pandemic the H&M group received government
regarding Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a assistance in certain markets, mainly in respect of rents and staffing.
Cont. Note 1 Accounting principles
cost of the items to which the grants relate. The grants are reported in controlling interest and are included in the consolidated accounts until
the income statement and balance sheet when it is reasonably certain such date as the controlling interest ends.
that the grants will be received and any conditions for receiving the
grants are fulfilled. Associates
All companies in which the group has a significant but not a controlling
Estimates, assumptions and assessments interest – generally companies where the group holds 20 to 50
The preparation of the annual report and consolidated accounts percent of the votes – are regarded as associates and reported
requires estimates and assumptions to be made, as well as judgments according to the equity method.
in the application of the accounting principles. These affect carrying
amounts for assets, liabilities, income, expenses and supplementary Business combinations
information. The estimates and assumptions are based on historical In business combinations the assets acquired and liabilities assumed
experience, other relevant factors and expectations of the future, and are identified and classified, and these are then measured at fair value
are reviewed regularly. The actual outcome may therefore deviate on the acquisition date. If the acquisition cost of the subsidiary’s shares
from the estimates and assumptions made. exceeds the calculated value of the net identifiable assets of the
acquired company at the time of acquisition, the difference is reported
The sources of estimation uncertainty, assessments and assumptions as goodwill upon consolidation. If the acquisition cost is less than the
that have been identified by the H&M group refers to the measurement finally established value of the net identifiable assets, the difference
of stock-in-trade, capitalisation of development expenditures, is reported directly in the income statement. Non-controlling interests
impairment testing of non-current assets, establishing the term of the are determined for each transaction either as a proportionate share
lease and an interest rate for borrowing included in the calculations of of the fair value of net identifiable assets or at fair value. Transaction
the right-of-use assets and interest-bearing liabilities attributable to costs associated with acquisitions are not included in the acquisition
leases, and the measurement of current and deferred tax; see notes 11, cost; instead, these are expensed immediately.
12, 13, 15 and 16.
Translation of foreign subsidiaries
The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment including The companies making up the group present their financial statements
right-of-use assets is tested for impairment when there is an indication in the currency used in the economic environment in which the
of possible impairment. If the carrying amount of an asset or a cash- company concerned mainly operates, known as the functional
generating unit, for which there is an indication of possible impairment, currency. These statements form the basis of the consolidated
exceeds the recoverable amount (the higher of fair value less cost accounts. The consolidated accounts are presented in Swedish kronor,
of disposal and the value in use) the carrying amount is reduced to which is the parent company’s functional currency and reporting
the recoverable amount of the asset or cash-generating unit. Any currency. Assets and liabilities in foreign subsidiaries are translated
impairment is recognised in profit/loss, mainly as selling expenses. at the exchange rate on the closing date, while the income statement
is translated at the average exchange rate for the financial year. The
The general approach is that a grouping of stores, based on a translation difference arising from this, and also as a result of the fact
significant degree of revenue substitution including an allocation of that the net investment is translated at a different exchange rate at
online sales, constitute a cash-generating unit and is assessed for the end of the financial year than at the beginning of the financial year,
impairment indicators. Previous years, each store has generally been is posted directly to equity as a translation reserve via the statement
considered to represent a cash-generating unit for impairment testing of comprehensive income. On disposal of a foreign business the
purposes. The reasons for the change in the approach to determining accumulated translation differences in the income statement are
a cash-generating unit is the increasing omni presence and experience posted together with the profit or loss on disposal.
offering to the same customer base and resulting significant revenue
substitution between the store and online sales channels as well
Foreign currency
as within certain groupings of stores. For further information on
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated
impairment, see note 13 and 15.
at the exchange rate on the closing date. Exchange rate differences
arising on translation are reported in the income statement except
It is judged that, as of 30 November 2022, there are no estimates or
for exchange rate differences in respect of loans, which are to be
assumptions in the financial statements that involve a significant risk of
regarded as net investment in a foreign operation. Exchange rate
any material adjustment to the reported values of assets and liabilities
differences of this type are posted to equity as translation differences
in the forthcoming financial year, other than those mentioned above.
via the statement of comprehensive income. Exchange rate
differences relating to loans in foreign currency taken out to hedge
Consolidated accounts
net investments in foreign operations are also recognised in other
Basis of consolidation
comprehensive income.
The consolidated accounts cover the parent company and its
subsidiaries and have been prepared according to the acquisition
Interest income
method. The financial reports for the parent company and the
Interest income is recognised as it is earned.
subsidiaries included in the consolidated accounts cover the same
period and have been prepared in accordance with the accounting
Other provisions
principles that apply to the group. Intra-group income, expenses,
Provisions are reported in the balance sheet when there is an
receivables and liabilities, as well as unrealised gains and losses, are
obligation as a result of an event that has occurred, and it is likely that
eliminated entirely in the preparation of the consolidated accounts. All
an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the
companies in which the group owns or controls more than 50 percent
amount can be reliably estimated.
of the votes, or in which the group alone has a controlling interest
through an agreement or otherwise, are consolidated as subsidiaries.
A restructuring provision is recognized when a formal restructuring
Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated accounts from the date
plan has been prepared and the restructuring has either begun or been
of acquisition, which is the date on which the parent company gains a
Cash flow statement transaction exposure and translation exposure. Transaction exposure
The cash flow statement is prepared according to the indirect method. arises when sales and purchases are made in currencies other than
The reported cash flow covers only transactions involving payments in the company’s reporting currency. Translation exposure arises when
or out. subsidiaries’ results, assets, liabilities, and equity are translated into
SEK, the group’s reporting currency.
2. FINANCIAL RISKS
Currency exposure associated with financial instruments
The group’s financing and management of financial risk is carried The H&M group’s currency risk associated with financial instruments
out centrally within the group’s finance department in accordance is mainly related to financial investments, accounts payable and
with a financial policy established by the board of directors. The derivatives. The group’s accounts payable in foreign currencies
financial policy establishes the framework, guidelines, mandate, and are mainly handled in Sweden and are largely hedged through
responsibilities for monitoring, reporting, and managing financial forward contracts. Based on this, a 10 percent change in the value
matters. The group treasurer shall report the group’s liquidity, funding of the Swedish krona in relation to other currencies would have an
need, and financial risks to the CFO on a monthly basis. The group’s insignificant momentary effect on profit related to financial instrument
accounting principles for financial instruments, including derivatives, holdings as of the closing date. A 10 percent strengthening of the
are described in note 21. Swedish krona would have a positive effect on the hedging reserve
in equity of around SEK 542 m (849) before taking into account the
In the course of doing business the group is exposed to risk associated tax effect, of which SEK 1,207 m (1,590) relates to EUR and SEK -1,892
with financial instruments such as cash and cash equivalents, short- m (-2,254) to USD. The group’s exposure to outstanding derivative
term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable and loans. instruments is reported in note 21.
The group also executes transactions involving currency derivatives
for the purpose of managing currency risk that arises in the course of The group’s operating result for the year was affected by net exchange
the group’s business. rate differences relating to flows of goods in the amount of SEK 143 m
(-120).
The risks relating to these instruments are primarily the following:
— interest rate risk associated with liabilities to credit institutions, cash Transaction exposure associated with commercial flows
and cash equivalents and short-term investments; Payment flows in the form of payments in foreign currencies for
accounts receivable and payable expose the group to currency risk. To
— currency risk associated with flows and with financial assets in manage currency risk relating to changes in exchange rates, the group
foreign currencies; hedges its currency risk within the framework of the financial policy.
Currency risk exposure is managed at a central level. A large share of
— credit risk and counterparty risk associated with financial assets and the group’s sales are made in euros, while the group’s most significant
derivative positions; purchase currencies are the US dollar and the euro. Fluctuation in the
US dollar/euro exchange rate is the single largest transaction exposure
— liquidity risk and financing risk relating to liquidity and cash within the group. To hedge the flows of goods in foreign currencies
flow as well as financing and refinancing of the group’s capital and thereby reduce the effects of future exchange rate fluctuations,
requirements. the group’s purchases of goods and the bulk of related forecast inflows
from the sales companies are fully hedged under forward contracts on
Interest rate risk an ongoing basis. The average term of outstanding forward contracts
Interest rate risk is the risk that earnings or the fair value of assets and is around three months. All derivatives have an original maturity of less
liabilities will be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. The than one year.
group’s exposure to risk from changes in interest rates relates to cash
and cash equivalents, short-term investments and liabilities to credit Translation exposure on consolidation of entities outside Sweden
institutions and for finance leases. The original term of the investments In addition to the effects of transaction exposure, profits are also
is up to three months as of the closing date. The group’s cash and affected by translation effects as a result of changes in exchange
cash equivalents and short-term investments as of the closing date rates for the local currencies of the various foreign subsidiaries
amounted to SEK 21,707 m (27,471). As of the closing date, loans and against the Swedish krona, compared to the same period the previous
leases amounted to SEK 72,635 m (66,691). An interest rate increase of year. The underlying profit/loss in a market may be unchanged in
1 percentage point on these amounts would increase interest income the local currency, but when converted into SEK may increase if the
from cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments by SEK Swedish krona has weakened or decrease if the Swedish krona has
222 m (176) and would increase interest expense for external borrowing strengthened. Translation effects also affect the group’s net assets on
and finance leases by SEK 544 m (450). A corresponding decrease in consolidation of the foreign subsidiaries’ balance sheets (translation
the interest rate would reduce interest income by the same amount exposure in the balance sheet). Where the remeasurement of balance
and would decrease interest expense related to liabilities to credit sheet items affects the group’s income statement, such as in the case
institutions and for leases. of intragroup liabilities and short-term intragroup receivables, these
are to be fully hedged. Net investment in foreign currency may be
The group’s exposure to the reform of interbank offered rates (IBOR) hedged in full or in part through a liability in the same currency, known
is limited. As of 30 November 2022 there are no drawn credit facilities as an equity hedge. As of 30 November 2022 certain portions of net
that refer to IBOR. investments are hedged in this way. The purpose of the hedging is
to protect – in the group’s consolidated accounts – the majority of
Currency risk the value of net investments in EUR from EUR/SEK exchange rate
There is a risk that fluctuations in exchange rates will have an adverse fluctuations.
effect on the company’s financial position, profitability and cash flow.
The H&M group is affected by fluctuations in exchange rates via Credit risk and counterparty risk
Cont. Note 2 Financial risks
H&M group. Financial credit risk arises primarily as counterparty risk
LOANS FROM UNDRAWN
in the form of investments or cash and cash equivalents in the bank
COMMERCIAL BONDS CREDIT CREDIT
accounts, and also as receivables from banks attributable to surplus YEAR PAPERS (EMTN) INSTITUTIONS FACILITIES
value in derivatives. The financial policy states maximum amounts
2022 350 – – –
and terms for investments and for cash and cash equivalents in bank
accounts with different ratings. Credit exposure as of 30 November 2023 600 – 2,369 –
2022 equals the book value for cash and cash equivalents of SEK 2024 – – – –
21,707 m (27,471), accounts receivable of SEK 3,014 m (3,059) and other
2025 – – – 3,275
SEK 4,777 m (7,373), totalling SEK 29,498 m (37,903). The group’s own
credit operations were phased out and are now managed through 2026 – – 2,000 –
collaboration with an external party.
2027 – – – 14,194
2028 – – – –
The group aims to have master netting agreements (ISDA) with all
counterparties for transactions involving derivative instruments. Assets 2029 – 5,459 – –
and liabilities related to derivative instruments are not netted in the
Total SEK m 950 5,459 4,369 17,469
balance sheet.
Supplier payment process
DERIVATIVE DERIVATIVE
The H&M group payment terms to commercial goods suppliers are in
2022 ASSETS LIABILITIES
line with industry standard. Some suppliers choose to sell their H&M
Gross amount 681 1,365
Group receivables, and if requested, the H&M group can introduce
Effect of netting agreements -665 -665 banks to purchase these receivables. This arrangement has together
with the underlying trade agreements been analysed from a number of
Net position 16 700
indicators of which all fulfill the requirements for these transactions to
be recognised as trade payables.
DERIVATIVE DERIVATIVE
2021 ASSETS LIABILITIES
3. SEGMENT REPORTING
Gross amount 1,422 1,015
The group’s business consists mainly of sales of clothing, accessories,
Effect of netting agreements -790 -790
footwear, cosmetics, home textiles and homeware to consumers.
Net position 632 225
Internal follow-up is carried out on a country-by-country basis by
the CEO, who is the group’s chief operating decision maker. Each
Liquidity risk and financing risk country is thus an operating segment. The various countries sell similar
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the H&M group will be unable to products via similar sales channels to similar customers, however.
meet its payment commitments due to a lack of liquidity. Financing risk Goods purchasing is carried out collectively for the group. Some
refers to the risk that the financing of the group’s capital requirements countries have similar economic characteristics, such as comparable
and the refinancing of outstanding loans becomes more difficult or long-term economic results as well as comparable operational and
more expensive. financial risks. In view of this, countries which have these similar
economic characteristics are combined in segment reporting in
The strategy for the H&M group’s liquidity planning and financing is accordance with IFRS 8. The H&M group has combined countries
to maintain good payment capacity and to identify and cover liquidity to form the segments Asia & Oceania, Europe & Africa, and North
needs arising in the group. Liquidity and financing risks are regulated & South America. The parent company and subsidiaries with no
in the H&M group’s financial policy, which states that loans are to have external sales are reported separately under Group Functions. The
an evenly distributed maturity structure and that cash and undrawn same accounting principles are applied to segment reporting as in the
credit facilities are to cover the company’s forecast short-term liquidity consolidated accounts. Transactions between segments take place on
needs. normal commercial terms.
Short-term liabilities in the form of accounts payables, liabilities to
2022 2021
credit institutions and other liabilities amount to SEK 28,273 m (25,967)
as of 30 November 2022. Cash and cash equivalents and short-term
investments were SEK 21,707 m (27,471). Cash and cash equivalents, Asia and Oceania
short-term investments and undrawn credit facilities totaled SEK
External net sales 29,385 26,304
39,176 m (42,649).
Operating profit 689 427
As of 30 November 2022 the group had interest-bearing liabilities of Operating margin, % 2.3 1.6
SEK 10,778 m (9,614) in the form of loans from credit institutions and
Assets excluding tax assets and internal
commercial papers. In addition, the group has undrawn credit facilities receivables 13,269 11,579
of SEK 17,469 m (15,178). The average maturity of interest-bearing
Liabilities excluding tax liabilities and internal
liabilities and undrawn credit facilities was 4.3 (5.6) years. A maturity
liabilities 3,354 2,789
analysis for outstanding interest-bearing liabilities and undrawn credit
facilities is given below. Investments 385 280
Depreciation, amortisation and write-downs 1,393 1,467
Cont. Note 3 Segment reporting
Operating profit for each segment is based on how the H&M group
2022 2021
tracks results internally within the group and may deviate from the
Europe and Africa1 fiscal result in each market. All effects of IFRS 16 are included under
External net sales 143,180 132,434 Group Functions. Impairment of non-current assets totalling SEK
218 m, as a result of impairment testing, is allocated to segments as
Operating profit 353 2,884
follows: Asia and Oceania SEK 48 m, Europe and Africa SEK 92 m, and
Operating margin, % 0.2 2.2 North and South America SEK 78 m. For further information see note
Assets excluding tax assets and internal 13.
receivables 31,391 29,221
The group’s property, plant and equipment amounted to SEK 82,736 m
Liabilities excluding tax liabilities and internal
(79,662) as of 30 November 2022. The property, plant and equipment
liabilities 16,725 15,355
are largely distributed between the countries in accordance with each
Investments 2,351 1,556 country’s level of sales. In Sweden property, plant and equipment
Depreciation, amortisation and write-downs 4,216 3,868 amounted to SEK 4,101 m (3,969), in the UK to SEK 6,856 m (8,112), in the
US to SEK 17,897 m (17,286) and in France to SEK 2,724 m (2,473) as of
30 November 2022.
North and South America
External net sales 50,988 40,229 4. NET SALES
Operating profit 1,247 886
The group’s income is generated mainly by the sale of clothing,
Operating margin, % 2.4 2.2
accessories, footwear, cosmetics, home textiles and homeware to
Assets excluding tax assets and internal consumers. The customers are mainly private individuals, with the
receivables 17,552 16,494 same prices applying to all customers. Any price reductions are
Liabilities excluding tax liabilities and internal general and not directed to any specific individual. Sales revenues
liabilities 8,887 8,491 are reported as net sales in the income statement, i.e. sales revenue
less value-added tax, returns and discounts. Revenue from both store
Investments 1,185 625
and online sales is reported in conjunction with sale to the customer
Depreciation, amortisation and write-downs 2,542 2,671 and is based on the country in which the store is located or the online
customer lives. In the case of store sales, therefore, the transaction
price is due for payment immediately when the customer makes the
Group Functions
purchase and receives the product in the store. In the case of online
Net sales to other segments 68,241 54,775
sales this principle means that revenue is reported when control of the
Operating profit 4,880 11,078 goods is considered as transferred from the H&M group.
Operating margin, % 7.2 20.2
The right to return goods is, as a minimum, in accordance with the
Assets excluding tax assets and internal local rules in the country concerned. Based on historical data and best
receivables 110,087 114,027
estimates, a returns reserve and a right of return asset are calculated
Liabilities excluding tax liabilities and internal which are reported gross under Other current liabilities and Stock-in-
liabilities 97,209 88,086 trade.
Investments 2,090 1,003
The payment terms are the same for all customers paying in cash or by
Depreciation, amortisation and write-downs 14,428 14,314
card and the amount of remuneration is not variable. In certain markets
(mainly online) the group collaborates with an external partner to offer
Eliminations payment terms that allow later payment against invoice, usually after
30 days.
Net sales to other segments -68,241 -54,775
Gift cards are offered in many countries and generally give rise
Total to a liability in the country concerned with effect from the date of
purchase. Revenue is then recognised when the card is used or
External net sales 223,553 198,967
expires.
Operating profit 7,169 15,255
Operating margin, % 3.2 7.7 Franchise sales have two components: sales of goods to franchisees,
which are reported on delivery of the goods, and franchise fees, which
Net financial items -953 -955
are reported when the franchisee sells goods to the consumer.
Profit after financial items 6,216 14,300
The points that members of the H&M loyalty programme can earn and
in the future use in the form of discounts represent a right that they
Assets excluding tax assets and internal
would not have without entering into this agreement. Points earned
receivables 172,299 171,321
that have not been used are reported as a current liability as well as
Liabilities excluding tax liabilities and a reduction in revenue in order to correspond to the future reduction
internal liabilities 126,175 114,721 in revenue that arises when the points issued are used to obtain
Investments 6,011 3,464 discounts. Revenue is recognised when the points are used or when
they expire maximum 12 months after being earned. The group applies
Depreciation, amortisation and write-
the practical expedient not to disclose information about remaining
downs 22,579 22,320
Cont. Note 4 Net Sales
original expected duration of one year or less. The liability is based on 7. SALARIES, OTHER REMUNERATION AND SOCIAL SECURITY
fair value calculated per outstanding point. COSTS
SEK M OF WHICH
BOARD, CEO, SOCIAL OF PENS.
30 NOVEMBER 2022 2021
EXECUTIVE SALARY, SEC. WHICH BOARD, CEO,
MANAGEMENT, OTHER COSTS PENS. EXECUTIVE
Contract liabilities1 1,110 1,156
2022 SALARY EMPLOYEES TOTAL TOTAL MANAGEMENT
The entire opening balance has been accounted for as income during the year. Sweden,
parent
1) Of which 1,110 as Accrued expenses and deferred income (1,325 as Accrued expenses and
deferred income and -169 as Other current liabilities). company 29 – -5 -13 4
Subsidiaries 73 33,202 7,686 817 24
The group’s income exhibits seasonal variations. The first quarter
Group total 102 33,202 7,681 804 28
of the financial year is normally the weakest and the last quarter the
strongest.
OF WHICH
NUMBER OF NUMBER OF BOARD, CEO, SOCIAL OF PENS.
STORES STORES EXECUTIVE SALARY, SEC. WHICH BOARD, CEO,
2022 30 NOV 2022 2021 30 NOV 2021 MANAGEMENT, OTHER COSTS PENS. EXECUTIVE
2021 SALARY EMPLOYEES TOTAL TOTAL MANAGEMENT
US 33,406 520 27,614 548
Sweden,
Germany 31,634 430 28,001 441 parent
company 21 – -46 -53 4
UK 16,338 246 13,901 265
Subsidiaries 54 30,407 7,430 759 18
France 10,285 201 9,224 216
Group total 75 30,407 7,384 706 22
Sweden 8,286 137 8,292 148
Italy 7,080 164 6,244 169 The negative social security and pension costs in the parent company are due to a correction by
Fora relating to the years 2004–2008.
Netherlands 6,185 114 5,676 121
Canada 6,172 97 4,932 98 Board fees
Board fees paid for the year as approved by the 2021 annual general
Switzerland 6,146 90 5,345 93
meeting (AGM) amounted to SEK 6,825,000 (6,825,000). Board fees
Poland 5,993 188 5,105 190 were paid as follows:
Other 92,028 2,278 84,633 2,512
Karl-Johan Persson, chair SEK 1,700,000
Total 223,553 4,465 198,967 4,801
Stina Bergfors SEK 650,000
Anders Dahlvig SEK 825,000
5. REVENUE FROM GROUP COMPANIES Lena Patriksson Keller SEK 650,000
Christian Sievert SEK 875,000
The parent company’s internal sales consist of royalties of SEK 3,942 m Erica Wiking Häger SEK 825,000
(3,914) and other income of SEK 37 m (39) from group companies. Niklas Zennström SEK 650,000
Danica Kragic Jensfelt SEK 650,000
6. COSTS BY TYPE
The fees were paid as resolved at the 2021 AGM. This means that the
Costs for the group are allocated to three functions: cost of goods fees related to the period until the next AGM was held, i.e. the period
sold, selling expenses and administrative expenses. The cost of goods 6 May 2021 to 4 May 2022. The amounts were paid out after the 2022
sold includes all costs of designing, producing and transporting the AGM.
goods to distribution centres. Examples of costs included in this, other
than the pure sourcing cost of the products, are shipping, customs As of the AGM on 4 May 2022 the board consists of eight ordinary
duties, environmental levies, payroll and the cost of premises for the members elected by the AGM. There are also three employee
buying department, IT costs related to buying and logistics as well representatives, with three deputies for these positions. Eight
as handling costs in the distribution centres and shipping costs from members of the board are women and six are men. Six of the 14 are
warehouses to stores. Selling expenses include store expenses such employed by the company.
as salaries and rents, marketing costs, handling costs in replenishment
centres for stores, shipping costs to online customers, IT costs related
Board member Lena Patriksson Keller is the majority shareholder in
to stores and sales, as well as central support functions related to
Patriksson Group AB, which had business dealings with H&M during the
sales. The item administrative expenses includes the costs of other
year. The transactions took place on market terms and remuneration
central support functions, such as salaries, rents and IT costs for
for 2022 amounted to SEK 10.6 m (6.4). Outstanding balances as of 30
administrative systems.
November 2022 totalled SEK 0.2 m (0.3). Erica Wiking Häger is a partner
at the law firm Mannheimer Swartling, which had business dealings
For information on payroll see note 7, and for depreciation, amortisation
with H&M during the year. The transactions took place on market terms
and write-downs see note 9.
and remuneration for 2022 amounted to SEK 3.9 m (1.9). Outstanding
balances as of 30 November 2022 totalled SEK 0.1 m (0.1).
Remuneration of senior executives
Cont. Note 7 Salaries, other remuneration and social security costs
Remuneration of the chief executive officer part-time. The number of years that the employee has worked for the
Remuneration paid to the CEO during the 2022 financial year in the company previously is taken into account in the qualification period,
form of salary and benefits amounted to SEK 14.7 m (14.2). There was which is five years unless local rules require otherwise. As a general
no variable remuneration in respect of the 2022 financial year, i.e. SEK rule, funds will begin to be paid out no earlier than the age of 62.
0.0 m (7.1). The variable remuneration in respect of the 2021 financial However, it will also be possible for payments to be made after ten
year of SEK 7.1 m was paid and expensed in the first quarter of 2022, as years of employment but no earlier than 2021.
communicated in the 2021 annual report. Pension benefits for the CEO
are covered by a defined contribution plan and by the ITP plan. The The 2013 annual general meeting resolved to change the basis of
combined pension expenses shall amount in total to 30 percent of the future contributions to HIP. The contribution is no longer linked to
CEO’s fixed salary. Pension expenses amounted to SEK 4.3 m (4.3). The the increase in dividend; instead, contributions to HIP are based on
retirement age for the CEO is 65. 10 percent of the increase in the company’s profit after tax between
two consecutive financial years. The increase in profit is calculated on
The CEO is entitled to a 12-month period of notice. In the event that profit after tax before any contribution to HIP. Thus when calculating
the company cancels the CEO’s employment contract, the CEO will the contribution to HIP for year 2, the year’s profit after tax is
also receive severance pay of a year’s salary. The CEO’s terms of compared with year 1’s profit after tax before any contribution to HIP.
employment are determined by the board of directors. This ensures that the two years are compared on a like-for-like basis;
in other words, profit after tax before any contribution to HIP. The first
Pension for a former CEO contribution to HIP based on an increase in profit was made for the
A former CEO retired on 1 September 2009. The total pension financial year which ended on 30 November 2013.
commitments recognised as liabilities, based on the fact that for the
first three years of retirement the person received a pension equivalent The contribution to HIP for a financial year is expensed in the year
to 65 percent of fixed salary and thereafter receives a lifelong pension to which it relates. For example, if profit after tax in year 1 is 100 and
equivalent to 50 percent of the same salary, amount to SEK 97.5 m profit after tax in year 2 is 130, then the contribution is 3 and will be
(125.6). The change in the year’s pension commitments recognised as expensed in year 2.
liabilities includes actuarial gains of SEK 22.0 m (3.2). Pension costs for
the former CEO are included under “of which pensions to board, CEO, There is a ceiling that limits the size of the contribution when
executive management”. the increase in profit between two years may be deemed
disproportionately large. The ceiling has been set at 2 percent of profit
Remuneration of the executive management team for the year after tax before any contribution to HIP.
In addition to the CEO, as of 30 November 2022 the executive
management comprised 14 (14) individuals, five of whom are women. The contributions to the foundation are to be invested in H&M Group
In addition to the CEO, the executive management team consists of shares. The H&M group has no other commitments beyond this.
the CFO, the person with responsibility for the H&M brand, the person
with responsibility for Portfolio Brands, the person with responsibility In the consolidated accounts the costs of the incentive programme are
for Business Ventures, the person with responsibility for Business recognised in accordance with the rules on short-term profit-sharing
Tech, the CTO and the heads of the following group functions: Growth, and bonus schemes set out in IAS 19. The expense is recognised when
Strategy & Transformation, People & Organisational Development, the amount has been established and an obligation exists. The amount
Sustainability, Supply Chain, Communications, The Laboratory and the is transferred to the foundation during the next financial year.
Group Strategy Counsel.
For 2022 a contribution of SEK 0 m (224) was made to the incentive
Remuneration paid to members of the executive management team, programme, based on the principle for contributions to HIP adopted at
other than the CEO, during the 2022 financial year in the form of salary the 2013 AGM and described above.
and benefits amounted to SEK 58.2 m (53.7 There was no variable
remuneration in respect of the 2022 financial year, i.e. SEK 0.0 m
8. AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES
(14.9). The variable remuneration in respect of the 2021 financial year
of SEK 14.9 m was paid and expensed in the first quarter of 2022, as
2022 2021
communicated in the 2021 annual report. Pension expenses relating TOTAL MALE % TOTAL MALE %
to the executive management team during the year amounted to SEK
Sweden 10,447 27 10,540 25
23.9 m (17.5). There are rules in place for members of the executive
management team with respect to supplements to retirement pension Norway 1,663 8 1,643 9
beyond the ITP plan. The retirement age varies between 62 and 65. Denmark 1,436 8 1,508 9
The cost of this commitment is partially covered by separate insurance
UK 7,140 25 7,081 24
policies.
Switzerland 1,599 15 1,666 14
H&M Incentive Program (HIP) Germany 9,371 22 9,592 19
An extraordinary general meeting held on 20 October 2010 resolved to
Netherlands 2,282 16 2,313 17
introduce an incentive programme for all employees of the H&M group.
Belgium 2,073 28 2,192 27
The programme was initiated by Stefan Persson and family through Austria 1,774 12 1,819 10
the donation of 4,040,404 H&M shares worth around SEK 1 billion to a
Luxembourg 197 16 199 15
Swedish foundation, Stiftelsen H&M Incentive Program.
Finland 778 5 779 4
All employees of the H&M group, regardless of their position and
France 4,646 23 4,388 24
salary level, are included in the programme according to the same
Cont. Note 8 Average number of employees
2022 2021 2022 2021
TOTAL MALE % TOTAL MALE % TOTAL MALE % TOTAL MALE %
Spain 3,947 20 4,046 23 Belarus1 42 26 90 24
Poland 5,930 16 5,999 16 North Macedonia 27 11 – –
Czech Republic 1,075 13 1,048 18 Ecuador 415 41 – –
Portugal 604 15 644 15 Kosovo 36 31 – –
Italy 3,551 26 3,482 24 Other countries 604 61 653 75
Canada 1,704 25 1,597 24 Total 106,522 25 107,375 26
Slovenia 163 5 141 6
1) The business in Russia and Belarus has been wound down during the 2022 financial year.
Ireland 388 16 375 17
Hungary 888 14 853 14 9. DEPRECIATION, AMORTISATION AND WRITE-DOWNS
Slovakia 323 14 248 15
Depreciation and amortisation have been calculated at 12.5 percent of
Greece 973 17 813 16
cost for equipment and leasehold rights, and 20 percent for computer
Mainland China 6,562 23 7,898 25 equipment and vehicles. Capitalised development expenditure is
amortised at 10-20 percent of cost.
Hong Kong SAR 526 36 684 36
Japan 1,789 26 1,972 27
Buildings are depreciated at 3 percent of cost. No depreciation is
Russia1 3,861 23 4,791 24 applied to land values. Depreciation and amortisation for the year are
reported in the income statement in accordance with the table below.
South Korea 1,041 25 583 21
Türkiye 1,439 44 1,495 44
GROUP PARENT COMPANY
Romania 998 17 998 19 2022 2021 2022 2021
Croatia 283 8 281 9 Cost of goods sold 1,709 1,617 – –
Singapore 301 33 371 33 Selling expenses 19,928 19,831 – –
Bulgaria 298 20 308 22 Administrative
Latvia 106 16 122 13 expenses 942 872 20 23
Malaysia 890 49 632 51 Total1 22,579 22,320 20 23
Mexico 1,908 47 1,761 46
1) Of which write-downs and losses at disposals for the group of 1,494 (925) and 0 (0) for the
Chile 2,070 42 1,708 43 parent company.
Lithuania 210 7 188 7
Depreciation relating to right-of-use assets is included above in the
Serbia 231 16 223 16
amount of SEK 12,105 m (11,988) for the group, which breaks down
Estonia 199 5 201 6 as follows: cost of goods sold SEK 810 m (881), selling expenses SEK
Australia 1,527 27 1,049 11 10,950 m (10,730) and administrative expenses SEK 345 m (377).
Philippines 712 50 499 47
10. AUDIT FEES
Taiwan Region 285 28 283 27
GROUP PARENT COMPANY
Peru 682 47 631 46
2022 2021 2022 2021
Macao SAR 10 40 36 39
Deloitte
India 2,228 62 1,763 61
Statutory audit 54.9 49.5 14.0 13.5
South Africa 1,019 43 826 36
Auditing other than 4.2 4.6 – –
Puerto Rico 62 39 56 38 statutory audit
Cyprus 59 27 37 24 Tax consultancy 1.0 0.5 – –
New Zealand 216 28 224 29 Other consultancy 2.4 2.3 – –
Kazakhstan 272 31 219 31
Other auditors
Colombia 359 49 267 46
Statutory audit 2.7 13.8 – –
Iceland 79 15 79 11
Total 65.2 70.7 14.0 13.5
Vietnam 378 43 383 45
Georgia 96 10 100 11
Ukraine 243 23 315 27
Uruguay 276 31 241 28
11. TAX
PARENT
GROUP COMPANY
Income taxes in the income statement represent current and deferred
2022 2021 2022 2021
tax payable by Swedish and foreign subsidiaries. Current tax is tax
that will be paid or received in respect of the current year as well Other temporary differences 300 43 – –
as adjustments to current tax attributable to previous periods. The
Effect of changed tax rates -120 106 – –
income tax rate in force in each country is applied.
Subtotal 708 86 -10 6
Deferred tax is calculated according to the balance sheet method
based on temporary differences arising between reported and fiscal
Total -2,650 -3,290 -149 -825
values of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax is calculated using the tax
rates that are expected to apply in the period when the receivables or
liabilities are settled, based on the tax rates (and the tax legislation) in Deferred tax recognised in
force on the closing date. A deferred tax liability is recognised for all other comprehensive income in
temporary differences unless it relates to goodwill or to an asset or respect of:
a liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and that, Hedging reserves 87 26 – –
at the time of acquisition, affects neither the reported nor taxable
Defined benefit pension plans -9 -43 -4 -1
profit or loss for the period. Also, temporary differences relating to
investments in subsidiaries and associates are taken into account Total 78 -17 -4 -1
only to the extent it is likely that the temporary difference will be
reversed in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets for temporary
Reconciliation between current
differences and loss carryforwards are recognised only to the extent it
tax rate and effective tax rate:
is likely that these will be able to be utilised.
Expected tax expense according
The carrying amounts of deferred tax assets are tested as of each to the Swedish tax rate of 20.6%
closing date and reduced where it is no longer deemed likely that they (21.4%) -1,280 -3,060 -2,003 -2,590
will be able to be utilised. Difference in foreign tax rates -76 19 – –
Non-deductible/non-taxable -228 -193 -7 -27
Global companies such as the H&M group are sometimes involved in
tax proceedings of varying extent and at different stages. The H&M Other -22 -81 – –
group continually evaluates tax proceedings in progress. Where it is Tax for previous years -924 -81 – 0
likely that additional tax will have to be paid and the outcome can be
Tax-free dividend subsidiaries – – 1,861 1,792
reasonably estimated, the necessary reserve is made. As of the closing
date, tax proceedings relating to internal pricing are in progress in Effect of changed tax rates -120 106 – –
some countries. The H&M group has made an assessment of the likely Total -2,650 -3,290 -149 -825
outcome and reserved the tax expense concerned. As of the closing
date, this reserve totalled SEK 183 m (513). This assessment took
Recognised deferred tax
account of aspects such as whether agreements on double taxation
assets relate to:
exist and whether there are differences between the tax rates in
different countries. Stock-in-trade 386 363 – –
Loss carryforwards in subsidiaries 98 73 – –
PARENT Pension provisions 88 112 71 86
GROUP COMPANY
Intangible non-current assets 173 182 – –
2022 2021 2022 2021
Property, plant and equipment 1,450 1,185 – –
Tax expense (-) / tax receivable (+):
Rent-related provisions 1,866 1,906 – –
Current tax
Hedging reserves 121 144 – –
Tax expense for the period -2,434 -3,295 -139 -831
Other temporary differences 2,355 1,661 – –
Adjusted tax expense for
previous years -924 -81 0 0 Total 6,537 5,626 71 86
Subtotal -3,358 -3,376 -139 -831
Recognised deferred tax
liabilities relate to:
Deferred tax receivable (+) /tax
expense (-) in respect of: Stock-in-trade 331 172
Stock-in-trade -156 138 – – Pension provisions 38 –
Loss carryforwards in Intangible non-current assets 982 1,178
subsidiaries 19 -924 – – Property, plant and equipment 1,355 1,853
Pension provisions -30 -43 -10 6 Rent-related provisions 26 112
Intangible non-current assets 173 193 – – Hedging reserves 168 119
Property, plant and equipment 804 728 – – Other temporary differences 373 167
As of the closing date, the group has no loss carryforwards that are
GROUP
not represented by recognised deferred tax assets. The portion of loss
carryforwards with a limited utilisation period is not material. 2022 2021
12. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Capitalised development expenditure
Opening cost 13,696 13,161
Intangible assets with a finite useful life are reported at cost less
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment. Acquisitions during the year 1,463 560
Amortisation is distributed on a straight-line basis over the assets’ Write-downs -155 -25
expected useful life.
Closing cost 15,004 13,696
Development expenditure is capitalised to the extent that it is judged
that the company will derive future financial benefits and if the cost Opening amortisation and write-downs -4,428 -2,984
can be reliably calculated. The carrying amount includes direct costs Amortisation for the year -1,665 -1,449
for acquired services, costs for payroll and materials as well as indirect
Write-downs 20 5
costs attributable to the asset. Other development costs, as well as
maintenance and training initiatives, are recognised as expenses in the Closing accumulated amortisation and
income statement as they arise. write-downs -6,073 -4,428
Closing book value 8,931 9,268
Goodwill is the amount by which the cost of the subsidiary’s shares
exceeds the estimated value of the subsidiary’s net identifiable assets Capitalised development expenditure refers mainly to IT-related
upon acquisition. Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is reported investments. Amortisation has commenced for those parts that were
as an intangible asset. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life, taken into use during 2013–2022, corresponding to around 97 percent
including goodwill, are tested for impairment annually or more often if of the capitalised development expenditure. Those projects that
there is an indication of a decline in value. If the carrying amount of the are not yet ready for use are tested for impairment annually and no
asset exceeds the recoverable amount (the higher of the net realisable impairment has been identified. Systems that are no longer in use with
value and the value in use), an impairment loss is applied for the an original cost of SEK 155 m (25) have been written off entirely.
necessary amount. Any impairment is recognised in profit/loss.
GROUP
GROUP
2022 2021
2022 2021
Goodwill2
Opening book value 64 64
Leasehold and similar rights
Change for the year – –
Opening cost 1,162 1,097
Closing book value 64 64
Acquisitions during the year 10 173
Sales/disposals -196 -128
2) Goodwill arose through the acquisition in 2008 of the company FaBric Scandinavien AB,
Translation effects 64 20 which is a cash-generating unit. H&M acquired the remaining 40 percent of the shares in
FaBric Scandinavien AB at the end of November 2010.
Closing cost 1,040 1,162
A goodwill impairment test was carried out at the end of 2022.
Opening amortisation and write-downs -794 -789 Significant assumptions used when testing goodwill for impairment
are sales development and gross margin. The impairment test is based
Sales/disposals 194 124
on a calculation of value in use. The value in use has been calculated
Amortisation and write-downs for the year -110 -117 based on discounted cash flows according to forecasts for the next
five years and with an annual growth rate of 2 percent (2) in subsequent
Translation effects -43 -12
years. A discount rate of 11.5 percent (11.5) before tax was used. The
Closing accumulated amortisation and cash flows are based on the H&M group’s business plan. The growth
write-downs -753 -794 rate of 2 percent (2) is based on the H&M group’s assessment of the
Closing book value 287 368 opportunities and risks associated with the business. The discount
rate is based on a weighted average cost of capital that is estimated
to be on a par with the external requirements that the market imposes
Opening value, projects in progress 5 4
for similar companies. No impairment was identified and, in the H&M
Change for the year 13 1 group’s judgment, reasonably possible changes in the variables above
Translation effects 0 0 would not have such a significant impact that the recoverable amount
would be reduced to a lower amount than the carrying amount.
Closing value, projects in progress 18 5
Closing book value incl. projects 305 373
Adjustment in respect of IFRS 161 -144 -149
Total closing book value 161 224
1) See note 15.
13. BUILDINGS, LAND AND EQUIPMENT
PARENT
GROUP COMPANY
Expenditure relating to property, plant and equipment are reported
in the balance sheet if it is likely that the company will derive future 2022 2021 2022 2021
financial benefits associated with the asset and if the asset’s cost Equipment
can be reliably calculated. Other expenditure as well as expenditure
Opening cost 66,288 69,449 125 169
relating to ongoing maintenance and repair are reported as an expense
in the period in which they arise. Property, plant and equipment are Acquisitions during the year 3,912 2,389 – 8
reported at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated Sales/disposals -11,469 -8,060 -24 -52
impairment. Depreciation is distributed on a straight-line basis over
Translation effects 6,488 2,510 – –
the assets’ expected useful life. No depreciation is applied to land. The
carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is tested when there Closing cost 65,219 66,288 101 125
is an indication of possible impairment. Impairment of non-current
assets as a result of impairment testing due to earnings performance
Opening depreciation and
amount to SEK 86 m for equipment, tools, fixture and fittings and
write-downs -41,248 -39,000 -95 -133
SEK 132 m for right of use assets for 2022, excluding stores where a
Sales/disposals 10,157 7,348 24 52
decision to close was taken prior to year-end, and is recognised mainly
as selling expenses. Write-downs for the year -2151 – – –
Depreciation for the year -7,472 -7,923 -12 -14
The majority of impairment losses recognised in previous years
Translation effects -4,271 -1,673 – –
amounting to SEK 115 m was reversed in the period, mainly as selling
expenses, as a result of improved earnings performance. Closing accumulated
depreciation and write-downs -43,048 -41,248 -83 -95
In addition, a sensitivity analysis has been performed on the result of
Closing book value 22,171 25,040 18 30
the impairment indicator test considering a 20 percent reduction in
earnings performance. The sensitivity analysis shows that no additional
Opening value, projects in
significant asset impairment is required.
progress 812 445 – 1
For further information on impairment, see note 1. Change for the year 659 354 4 -1
For right-of-use assets relating to leases, see note 15. Translation effects 93 13 – –
Closing value, projects in
PARENT progress 1,564 812 4 –
GROUP COMPANY
Total closing book value 23,734 25,852 22 30
2022 2021 2022 2021
Buildings 1) Including reclassification of SEK-244 m from short-term liabilities.
Opening cost 1,156 1,134 235 235
14. INTERESTS IN ASSOCIATES
Acquisitions during the year – – – –
Sales/disposals – 0 – – GROUP
Translation effects 82 22 – – 2022 2021
Closing cost 1,238 1,156 235 235 Opening balance 686 247
New investments 114 489
Opening depreciation and
Reclassification to other shares and
write-downs -586 -539 -116 -110
interests -28 –
Sales/disposals – – – –
Sales/disposals – –
Depreciation for the year -34 -33 -5 -6
Write-downs -176 –
Translation effects -46 -14 – –
Dividends – –
Closing accumulated
Share of result -93 -50
depreciation and write-downs -666 -586 -121 -116
Closing balance 503 686
Closing book value 572 570 114 119
SHARE OF
Land CORPORATE RESULT,
2022 ID NUMBER DOMICILE SHARE % SEK M
Opening cost 154 150 7 7
Acquisitions during the year – – – –
Sellhelp AB1 556996-1260 Stockholm 79.8 -19
TreeToTextile AB 556989-2648 Stockholm 28.9 -13
Sales/disposals -42 – – –
Worn Again
Translation effects 13 4 – –
Technologies Ltd2 UK 27.6 -8
Closing cost 125 154 7 7
Thread Inc3 US 23.5 -19
Cont. Note 14 interests in associates
stores classes H&M Group uses the first break right regardless contract
22002211
length. Other stores that are not flagship, have an average leasing
SSeellllhheellpp AABB11 555566999966--11226600 SSttoocckkhhoollmm 7744..77 --3366 period of ca 3,5 years. Leasing period for warehouses and offices is
TTrreeeeTTooTTeexxttiillee AABB 555566998899--22664488 SSttoocckkhhoollmm 2288..00 --77 calculated based on the contract length. The group’s assumptions are
evaluated on an ongoing basis considering changes in the industry. The
WWoorrnn AAggaaiinn
discount rate used for the calculation corresponds to the H&M group’s
TTeecchhnnoollooggiieess LLttdd UUKK 2299..44 --77
incremental borrowing rate, considering aspects such as currency
TThhrreeaadd IInncc44 UUSS 2233..55 00 and length of the respective leases. The rate is updated annually and
CCAALLAA IInncc11,,55 UUSS 8822..44 00 monitored continuously to update during the financial year if needed.
Marginal discount rate reflects H&M Group’s credit risk.
11)) TThhee HH&&MM ggrroouupp’’ss hhoollddiinnggss iinn SSeellllhheellpp AABB aanndd CCAALLAA IInncc ddoo nnoott ccoonnssttiittuuttee aa ccoonnttrroolllliinngg
iinntteerreesstt.. The group is reporting a cash outflow for leases of SEK 12,139 m
22)) RReeccllaassssiiffiieedd ttoo ootthheerr sshhaarreess aanndd iinntteerreessttss 2233 SSeepptteemmbbeerr..
(12,279) for the 2022 financial year.
33)) WWrriitttteenn ddoowwnn 3300 NNoovveemmbbeerr..
44)) AAccqquuiirreedd 2244 NNoovveemmbbeerr..
55)) AAccqquuiirreedd 2233 NNoovveemmbbeerr..
For further information on impairment, see note 1 and 13.
15. LEASES Covid-19
The H&M group has chosen not to apply the amendment to IFRS 16
Background and scope that allows relief for rent concessions attributable to Covid-19.
Under IFRS 16, a lease is an agreement that controls the right to use an
identifiable asset during a given period against payment. The majority The amounts attributable to leasing activities that were recognised in
of the contracts that the H&M group classifies as leases in accordance the income statement during the year are presented below:
with IFRS 16 are leases for store premises where the group runs
its own operations. Contracts for offices and warehouses used by
GROUP
the group are also classified as leases. In accordance with IFRS 16 a
lease liability and a right-of-use asset are calculated for the contracts SEK M 2022 2021
included. The lease liability is measured initially at the present value of
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 11,838 12,044
the future lease payments discounted using the interest rate implicit
in the lease, and in subsequent periods by increasing the liability to Write-down of right-of-use assets 307 –
reflect the effect of interest and reducing it to reflect the effect of Interest expense for lease liabilities 872 779
lease payments made. The right-of-use asset is measured initially at
Expense for variable lease payments 6,938 5,605
the value of the lease liability and in subsequent periods at cost less
depreciation and impairment. Right-of-use assets are depreciated Other miscellaneous lease related charges 3,273 2,078
over the estimated lease term. In accordance with the standard, the Total expense attributable to leasing
lease liability is calculated based on fixed lease payments. Variable activities 23,228 20,507
lease payments, such as sales-based rent, are not included in the
lease liability. Property tax is a variable expense and is therefore also
Right-of-use assets and lease liability under IFRS 16
excluded from the lease liability. The group has decided to apply
The group divides its leases into three classes of right-of-use asset:
the option to exclude leases of low value and leases with a term
Stores, Warehouses and Offices. The table below presents the closing
of less than 12 months. These will therefore not be included in the
balances for right-of-use assets and lease liabilities along with changes
lease liability but instead will continue to be reported as rental costs,
during the year.
expensed on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. The
company has no sale and leaseback transactions. Some leases contain
clauses concerning restoration of the premises; the effect of this is not RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
material for the group. WARE- LEASE
SEK M STORES HOUSES OFFICES TOTAL LIABILITY
The H&M group has around 4,500 stores as well as multiple offices and Opening balance
warehouses all around the world. Applying the standard has required 1 Dec 2021 46,481 3,973 2,631 53,085 57,076
estimates and assumptions, such as establishing the term of the
Gross increase
lease and an interest rate for borrowing. The assumption that has the
during the period 11,223 906 726 12,855 12,558
greatest effect on the size of the lease liability is the assessment of the
lease term. Break and extension options are exercised on the expiry Depreciation of
of the lease term, the lease may be terminated entirely, renegotiated right-of use-assets -10,399 -681 -758 -11,838
or extended depending on the provisions in the contract. In certain Write-down of
circumstances, a right to terminate the contract during the lease right-of-use assets -307 -307
term may reduce the lease term used for the calculation. The option
Translation
to extend is considered if it is reasonably certain that the lessee will
differences 4,067 334 109 4,510 4,895
exercise this option. It is rare for a lease to be terminated before the
lease term has expired. To facilitate assessment of the lease term used Interest expense
to calculate the lease obligation according to IFRS 16, the assumptions for lease liability 872
are based on the type of contract. The assumptions used to establish Lease payments -13,545
the lease term for each type of contract are based on the best possible
Closing balance
assessment and on historical data, as well as the current market
30 Nov 2022 51,065 4,532 2,708 58,305 61,857
situation. Leasing period for stores is based on the store class and
Cont. Note 15 Leases
The stock-in-trade amounted to 23.3 percent (20.8) of total assets and
RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
19.0 percent (18.7) of net sales.
WARE- LEASE
SEK M STORES HOUSES OFFICES TOTAL LIABILITY
17. PREPAID EXPENSES
Opening balance
1 Dec 2020 52,541 3,645 3,349 59,534 63,733
GROUP PARENT COMPANY
Gross increase 2022 2021 2022 2021
during the period 2,991 803 -40 3,754 4,319
Prepaid rent 2,890 2,884 – –
Depreciation of
right-of use-assets -10,666 -600 -778 -12,044 Other items 1,604 1,923 186 90
Translation Total 4,494 4,807 186 90
differences 1,616 125 100 1,841 2,033
Interest expense 18. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
for lease liability 779
Lease payments -13,788 Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and bank balances as well
as short-term investments with a maximum term of three months from
Closing balance
the date of acquisition. These investments carry no significant risk
30 Nov 2021 46,481 3,973 2,631 53,085 57,076
of changes in value. The loss allowance for expected credit losses as
of the closing day does not amount to a significant amount and has
A maturity analysis of the group’s lease liabilities included in IFRS 16 as
therefore not been recognised.
of 30 November 2022 is presented below:
GROUP PARENT COMPANY
GROUP
2022 2021 2022 2021
RENTAL COMMITMENTS SEK M 2022 2021
In next 12 months 12,575 11,698 Cash and bank bal-
ances 19,661 24,836 2 –
In next one to three years 17,349 15,308
Short-term
In next three to five years 9,940 8,298
investments,
More than five years ahead 21,993 21,768 0–3 months 2,046 2,635 – –
Total 61,857 57,072 Total 21,707 27,471 2 –
16. STOCK-IN-TRADE Investments are made on market terms and the interest rates are
between 0 and 18.75 percent. The difference in interest rate depends
The stock-in-trade, which consists of merchandise, is valued at the mainly on the currency in which the funds are invested.
lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost refers to the company’s
expenses for acquiring the goods including customs duties and 19. SHARE CAPITAL
shipping. The net realisable value is the estimated market value
less calculated selling expenses. From the moment the goods are The share capital is divided between 194,400,000 class A shares (10
transferred from the supplier to the transport service provider votes per share) and 1,460,672,000 class B shares (one vote per share).
appointed by the H&M group, the goods are owned according to civil There are no other differences between the rights associated with the
law by the H&M group and become part of H&M Group’s reported shares. The total number of shares is 1,655,072,000.
stock-in-trade. Goods that have not yet arrived at a store are valued
at their actual purchase cost including the estimated cost of customs A share buyback programme was initiated on 29 June 2022. During
duties and shipping. the period 29 June – 28 November 2022 a total of 25,385,163 own
B shares were repurchased for SEK 3 billion. As at 30 November
For the majority of the group’s goods, cost is calculated as weighted the total number of outstanding shares, excluding own shares, was
average prices; for other stock accounting, the carrying amount is 1,629,686,837. In the 2022 financial year a dividend of SEK 10,688 m
calculated as the selling price less the estimated gross margin (the was distributed.
retail method). The group is continuing to gradually move across to
calculating cost as weighted average prices, but this change has no The group’s managed capital consists of shareholders’ equity.
material impact on the consolidated financial statements. The group’s goal with respect to managing the capital is to enable
good growth to continue and to be prepared to exploit business
Stock-in-trade amounted to SEK 42,495 m (37,306), a 13.9 percent opportunities. The board of directors’ intention is to continue to
increase in SEK compared with the same point in time last year. In local provide shareholders with a good direct return while ensuring that, as
currencies there was a 3 percent decrease. in the past, expansion and investments in the business can proceed
with a continued strong financial position and freedom of action. Based
Significant write-downs are rare. There were no material write-downs on this, the board of directors has proposed a dividend policy stating
in the current financial year or the previous financial year. Only an that the ordinary dividend over time is to exceed 50 percent of profit
insignificant part of the stock-in-trade is valued at net realisable value. after tax and additionally that identified surplus liquidity – taking into
The group’s asset for rights of return does not increase stock-in-trade consideration the capital structure target and investment requirements
by a material amount. There is deemed to be no material obsolescence – can be distributed to shareholders through an extra dividend or a
in the stock-in-trade. buyback programme.
20. PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS in the discount rate. Such gains or losses are recognised in other
comprehensive income in the year they arise.
The H&M group has several different plans for benefits after
employment has ended. The plans are either defined benefit or For salaried employees in Sweden, the H&M group applies the ITP plan
defined contribution plans. Defined contribution plans are reported through insurance policies with Alecta and Collectum, i.e. ITP 2 and ITP
as an expense in the period when the employee performs the service 1. According to statement UFR 10 from the Swedish Financial Reporting
to which the benefit relates. Defined benefit plans are assessed Board, the ITP 2 plan is a defined benefit plan that covers a number
separately for each plan based on the benefits earned during the of employers. The plan will be reported as a defined contribution plan
previous and current periods. The defined benefit obligations less until the company gains access to information that allows this plan
the fair value of any managed assets are reported under the heading to be reported according to the rules for defined benefit plans. The
Provisions for pensions. In the case of the Swedish entities, the expected contributions to ITP 2 for the next annual reporting period is
actuarial calculations also cover future payments of special payroll estimated at SEK 202 m. The ITP 1 plan is a defined contribution plan.
tax. Defined benefit plans are found in Germany, Spain, Sweden and See also note 7 for information on pension to a former CEO.
Switzerland. Pension obligations are assessed annually with the help
of independent actuaries according to the Projected Unit Credit Alecta’s surplus cannot be allocated to the insured employer and/or the
Method. The assessment is made using actuarial assumptions. These insured employees. As of 30 September 2022, Alecta’s consolidation
assumptions include such things as the discount rate, mortality and ratio was 189 percent (169). The consolidation ratio is calculated as
anticipated salary and pension increases. Changes in the actuarial the fair value of managed assets as a percentage of the obligations
assumptions and outcomes that deviate from the assumptions calculated in accordance with Alecta’s actuarial assumptions. This
give rise to actuarial gains or losses. The actuarial gains and losses calculation is not in line with IAS 19.
arising are mainly due to the financial assumptions, such as changes
GROUP PARENT COMPANY
2022 2021 2022 2021
Present value of defined benefit obligations 1,736 1,794 119 154
Fair value of managed assets -1,403 -1,366 -3 -10
Provisions for pension obligations recognised in the balance sheet 333 428 116 144
Opening balance 1 December 1,794 1,819 154 180
Recognised pension expenses, net 4 33 -19 -6
Pensions paid out -18 -26 -10 -20
Contributions by plan participants 31 32 – –
Disbursements from assets -75 -64 -6 –
Carrying amount of defined benefit obligations, 1,736 1,794 119 154
30 November
Opening balance 1 December -1,366 -1,207 -10 -11
Recognised pension income, net -37 -145 1 1
Premiums paid by employer -44 -46 – –
Contributions by plan participants -31 -32 – –
Disbursements 75 64 6 –
Carrying amount of fair value of plan assets, -1,403 -1,366 -3 -10
30 November
Of the total recognised obligation, SEK 131 m (168) relates to defined benefit pensions plans in Sweden and SEK 163 m (202) to plans in Switzerland.
The weighted average maturity of these pension plans is 7.7 years for the Swedish plans and 12.9 years for the Swiss plans.
Cont. Note 20 Provisions for pensions
GROUP PARENT COMPANY
2022 2021 2022 2021
The amounts recognised as pension expenses comprise the following
items:
Current service cost 60 68 – –
Interest expense 9 6 2 2
Interest income -6 -3 0 0
Reductions/adjustments gains (-) and losses (+) -17 -3 – –
Past service cost -42 -2 – –
Changes in foreign exchange rates for plans valued in a currency other
than the reporting currency 18 9 – –
Pension expenses recognised in the income statement 22 75 2 2
Pension expenses recognised in other comprehensive income
Return on plan assets 119 -82 1 1
Actuarial gains/losses demographic assumptions liability -5 -41 -5 –
Actuarial gains/losses financial assumptions liability -235 -48 -23 -4
Actuarial gains/losses experience liability 66 -16 7 -4
Actuarial gains (-) and losses (+) -55 -187 -20 -7
Total recognised pension expenses -33 -112 -18 -5
The cost of defined contribution pension plans amounts to SEK 868 m (890).
Next year’s expected payments for defined benefit pension plans amount to SEK 41 m.
Significant actuarial assumptions on the balance sheet date
(weighted average amounts)
Discount rate 2.17% 0.55% 4.00% 1.50%
Future salary increases 2.01% 1.02% 3.25% 3.00%
Future pensions increases (inflation) 0.20% 0.23% 2.25% 2.00%
The mortality assumptions for Sweden are based on the mortality table DUS21, which is the latest mortality review published by Insurance
Sweden. For the other plans the representative mortality tables based on local market practise have been used.
A 0.5 percentage point reduction in the discount rate would increase the liability for the Swedish commitments by SEK 5.3 m (8.5).
21. FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES BY CATEGORY
FINANCIAL ASSETS
AND LIABILITIES
HELD AT FAIR VALUE FINANCIAL
THROUGH OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS LIABILITIES DERIVATIVES
COMPREHENSIVE HELD AT HELD AT WITH HEDGE TOTAL BOOK
INCOME AMORTISED COST AMORTISED COST ACCOUNTING VALUE
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
Other non-current receivables – – 939 860 – – – – 939 860
Accounts receivable – – 3,014 3,059 – – – – 3,014 3,059
Derivatives – – – – – – 681 1,422 681 1,422
Other shares and interests 2,654 4,405 – – – – – – 2,654 4,405
Cash and cash equivalents – – 21,707 27,471 – – – – 21,707 27,471
Total financial assets 2,654 4,405 25,660 31,390 – – 681 1,422 28,995 37,217
Accounts payable – – – – 21,090 20,382 – – 21,090 20,382
Liabilities to credit institutions – – – – 10,778 9,615 – – 10,778 9,615
Other long-term liabilities – – – – 183 180 – – 183 180
Derivatives. – – – – – – 1,365 1,015 1,365 1,015
Total financial liabilities – – – – 32,051 30,177 1,365 1,015 33,416 31,192
The group applies IFRS 9 Financial Instruments. valuation techniques may be taken into consideration: applying
relevant multiples from similar companies to the holding’s key ratios,
Financial instruments recognised in the balance sheet include on the historical transactions in the industry, and the discounted cash flow
assets side cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, short- method. The fair value of the remaining shares and interests is based
term investments, non-current receivables, and derivatives. On the on the latest financing round or transaction. The price from the latest
liabilities side are accounts payable, liabilities to credit institutions financing round or transaction is assessed to represent fair value of
and derivatives. Financial instruments are reported in the balance investments as transactions have been made between independent
sheet when the group becomes party to the contractual terms of the parties and no significant events affecting the fair value has occurred
instrument. Financial assets are removed from the balance sheet when between the date of the prior transaction and the closing day. If the
the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset cease. Financial price in the latest financing round or transaction had been 1 percent
liabilities are removed from the balance sheet when the obligation is higher, the value of the holding would have increased to the same
met, cancelled, or ends. For lease liabilities see note 15. extent. The fair value of the remaining shares and interests amounts to
SEK 2,412 m (3,623) as of 30 November 2022, the largest investments
Financial instruments are measured based on inputs classified in being Instabee SEK 709 m (377), Sheertex SEK 526 m (31), and Klarna
accordance with IFRS 13: SEK 456 m (2,939). The fair value of the majority of the investments is
Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities, based on financing rounds or transactions made during the current
such as shares or bonds listed on a stock exchange. financial year.
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted market prices included within Level
1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly RECONCILIATION OF INVESTMENTS BASED
(such as quoted prices) or indirectly (obtained from quoted ON LEVEL 3 INPUT 2022 2021
prices), such as currency forwards or interest rate swaps.
Opening balance 3,623 427
Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not entirely based on
observable market data. Additions 816 578
Disposals -25 -19
Classification and subsequent recognition
Reclassification1 28 -337
At the date of acquisition the financial instruments are classified in the
categories below. Gain or loss recognised in Other
comprehensive income2 -2,030 2,974
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Closing balance 2,412 3,623
In view of the strategic nature of the interests, assets in this category
consists of non-controlling interests that are revalued in other 1) Reclassification refers to investments in CALA and Thread Inc being reclassified as
comprehensive income as well as in financial assets in the balance investments in associates for 2021 and investment in Worn Again being reclassified to
non-controlling interest in 2022.
sheet. The valuation of the holding in Renewcell AB is based on
2) The effect on Other comprehensive income for 2022 consists primarily of the loss rec-
the share price on the closing day (level 1), and the fair value of the ognised on the Klarna investment of SEK -2,482 m. The valuation is based on an indicative
investment amounts to SEK 242 m (782) as of 30 November 2022. subscription price from a transaction in July 2022.
Financial assets measured at amortised cost
The valuation of the other non-controlling interests is based primarily
Assets in this category are measured at amortised cost, with the
on the latest financing round or transaction. When this is not available,
effective interest rate being used to calculate the value. These assets
the companies are valued by applying an appropriate valuation
Cont. Note 21 Financial assets and liabilities by category
flows that represent solely payments of principal and interest. The financial year all were categorised as cash flow hedging or hedging of
carrying amount of assets measured at amortised cost is adjusted by net investments in foreign operations.
any expected credit loss allowance recognised. This category primarily
covers cash and bank balances as well as accounts receivable. The Hedging of forecast currency flows – cash flow hedging
group’s own credit operations were phased out and are now managed Derivatives that hedge the forecast flow are reported in the balance
through collaboration with an external party. As of the closing date, all sheet at fair value. Changes in value are reported in equity as a hedging
of the group’s short-term investments fell into this category. reserve, through other comprehensive income, until such time as
the hedged flow is recognised in operating profit, at which time the
Recognition of expected credit losses hedging instrument’s accumulated changes in value are transferred
The group will recognise a loss allowance for expected credit losses to the income statement where they then correspond to the profit/
on financial assets measured at amortised cost. As of the closing day, loss effects of the hedged transaction. The effectiveness of cash flow
an adjustment of the loss allowance will be recognised in profit or loss. hedges for hedging forecast currency flows is measured monthly by
comparing the hedged item with the hedging instrument.
The group will measure the loss allowance at an amount equal to 12
months expected credit losses. If the credit risk of a financial asset has Measurement of the category hedging derivatives at fair value is
increased significantly since the initial recognition, the loss allowance based on observable data; in other words, in accordance with Level
will be measured at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit 2 in the measurement hierarchy established in IFRS 13. The fair value
losses. Cash and cash equivalents are assessed to have a low credit of forward exchange contracts is calculated by discounting the
risk. For accounts receivables, the group will apply the simplified difference between the agreed forward rate and the forward rate that
approach which means that the loss allowance will be measured at an can be obtained on the closing date for the remaining contract term.
amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses. The loss allowance Contracts are discounted to a risk-free rate based on government
for expected credit losses as of the closing day does not amount to a bonds.
significant amount and has therefore not been recognised.
Hedging of net investments in foreign operations
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Derivatives intended for hedging net investments in foreign operations
This category includes financial liabilities that are not held for trading. are recognised in equity through other comprehensive income. The
These are initially recognised at fair value, net after transaction costs, effectiveness of hedging of net investments in foreign operations is
and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest measured quarterly by comparing the hedged item with the hedging
method, which means that the estimated change in value (the effective instrument.
interest) is recognised as interest income or interest expense in the
income statement. Accounts payable fall into this category. These The fair value of all financial assets and liabilities essentially
have a short expected term and are recognised at the nominal corresponds to the book value. Assets and liabilities that are
amount with no discounting. Liabilities to credit institutions are recognised at amortised cost have short remaining terms, making the
measured at amortised cost. All of the liabilities stated below under difference between book value and fair value negligible.
financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost. A calculation at
fair value would reduce the group’s liabilities to credit institutions by The following table shows the outstanding forward contracts for cash
approximately SEK 1,300 m. The reduction is due to general increase in flow hedging reported in the hedging reserve as of the closing date.
interest rates since liabilities were issued.
AVERAGE
Derivatives with hedge accounting
BOOK VALUE AND NOMINAL REMAINING
Currency derivatives are measured at fair value based on Level 2 inputs FAIR VALUE, SEK AMOUNT, SEK TERM IN MONTHS
in the IFRS 13 hierarchy. As of 30 November 2022, forward contracts
SELL/BUY 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
with a positive market value amount to SEK 681 m (1,422), which is
reported under other current receivables. Forward contracts with a NOK/SEK -3 1 728 942 4 3
negative market value amount to SEK 1,365 m (1,015), which is reported GBP/SEK -46 -57 3,063 3,570 3 3
under other current liabilities. Other financial assets and liabilities have
DKK/SEK -14 -13 857 1,025 3 3
short terms. The fair values of these financial instruments are assessed
to be approximately equal to their book values. CHF/SEK -11 -40 887 987 3 4
EUR/SEK -212 -220 14,153 17,391 3 4
Reporting of derivatives used for hedging purposes
PLN/SEK -39 7 875 1,370 4 4
All derivatives are reported initially and subsequently at fair value in the
balance sheet. USD/SEK 12 -261 7,116 6,015 4 3
CAD/SEK 31 -27 1,191 1,227 3 4
The group’s policy is for derivatives to be held for hedging purposes
JPY/SEK -3 -23 699 793 4 4
only. Derivatives comprise forward currency contracts used to hedge
the risk of exchange rate fluctuations for internal and external flows of HKD/SEK 0 -4 64 86 3 3
goods.
RON/SEK -15 -8 547 509 4 4
CZK/SEK -11 -3 351 373 4 3
To meet the requirements of hedge accounting there must be a clear
link to the hedged item. In addition, the hedge must effectively protect HUF/SEK -10 5 325 404 4 4
the hedged item, hedge documentation must have been prepared and
AUD/SEK 1 -4 400 435 3 3
the effectiveness must be measurable.
CNH/SEK 18 -38 719 617 4 3
In hedge accounting, derivatives are classified as cash flow hedging RUB/SEK 0 -22 0 952 0 3
Cont. Note 21 Financial assets and liabilities by category
23. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
AVERAGE
BOOK VALUE AND NOMINAL REMAINING
FAIR VALUE, SEK AMOUNT, SEK TERM IN MONTHS Ramsbury Invest AB, which is owned by Stefan Persson and family,
is formally the parent company of H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB.
SELL/BUY 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
The H&M group leases the following store premises in properties
TRY/SEK -11 54 216 217 4 3
directly or indirectly owned by the Stefan Persson family and
MXN/SEK -62 14 1,060 929 3 3 related companies: Drottninggatan in Stockholm, Kungsgatan and
Östra Hamngatan in Gothenburg, Stadt Hamburgsgatan in Malmö,
SEK/USD -40 1,175 25,924 27,615 0 3
Amagertorv in Copenhagen, Oxford Circus and Regent Street in
SEK/EUR 34 21 2,241 1,669 0 4 London, Kaufingerstrasse in Munich, Via del Corso/Via Tomacelli in
Subtotal -379 558 61,416 67,126 Rome, Wisconsin Avenue in Washington DC and, since January 2008,
premises for H&M’s head office in Stockholm. Rent is paid at market
rates, and rental costs and other property-related expenses totaled
AVERAGE SEK 583 m (558) for the financial year. Outstanding balances in the
BOOK VALUE AND NOMINAL REMAINING
form of prepaid rent amount to SEK 0 m (7.4) and lease liabilities
FAIR VALUE, SEK AMOUNT, USD TERM IN MONTHS
amount to SEK 2,288 m (2,738) as of 30 November 2022.
SELL/BUY 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
KRW/USD 0 2 0 31 0 3 Transactions with associates took place on market terms and
amounted to SEK 122 m (0) for the financial year. Outstanding balances
CLP/USD 0 15 0 15 0 3
with associates amount to SEK 27 m (0) as of 30 November 2022.
PEN/USD 0 0 0 5 0 2
Subtotal 0 17 0 51 Ramsbury Invest AB, the principal shareholder in H & M Hennes
& Mauritz AB, did in 2020 issue 300,000 call options to Helena
Total -379 575
Helmersson, the H&M group’s CEO. The options are issued on market
terms and are based on an independent third-party valuation using the
At the closing date, forward contracts with a positive market value
Black & Scholes model. The options issued have no dilution effect for
amount to SEK 681 m (1,422), which is reported under other current
H&M shareholders and no cost to the H&M group since the transaction
receivables. Forward contracts with a negative market value amount
is against Ramsbury Invest AB’s existing shareholding. Each option
to SEK 1,365 m (1,015), which is reported under other current liabilities.
provides the right to buy one class B share in H&M at a strike price of
Of the outstanding forward contracts, losses of SEK 305 m (169) were
SEK 202.48 per share and may be exercised during a 12-month period
transferred to the income statement when hedged transactions
beginning three years after the agreement date. Helena Helmersson
occurred for these contracts. The residual fair value of SEK 379 m (576)
is paying a premium of SEK 12.34 per option to the issuer Ramsbury
is included in the hedging reserve in equity.
Invest.
22. ACCRUED EXPENSES, DEFERRED INCOME AND OTHER
See also note 7 for outstanding balances with board members.
PROVISIONS
GROUP PARENT COMPANY
2022 2021 2022 2021
Holiday pay liability 1,618 1,574 – –
Social security costs 1,030 1,295 34 47
Payroll liability 1,966 1,724 1 1
Costs relating to premises 9,196 7,835 – –
Other accrued overheads 11,131 9,643 141 143
Total 24,941 22,071 176 191
GROUP
2022 2021
Restructuring provision 836 –
Total 836 –
24. INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES
GROUP PARENT COMPANY
LOANS FROM INTEREST LOANS FROM
INTEREST RATE COMMERCIAL BONDS CREDIT RATE % 30 COMMERCIAL BONDS CREDIT
2022 % 30 NOV PAPERS (EMTN) INSTITUTIONS NOV PAPERS (EMTN) INSTITUTIONS
2022 1.9–2 350 – 0 1.9-2 350 – –
2023 0.784-26 600 – 2,369 0.784-2.61 600 – 2,068
2024 0 – – – 0 – – –
2025 0 – – – 0 – – –
2026 1.7 – – 2,000 1.7 – – 2,000
2027 0 – – – 0 – – –
2028 0 – – – 0 – – –
2029 0.25 – 5,459 – 0.25 – 5,165 –
950 5,459 4,369 950 5,165 4,068
GROUP PARENT COMPANY
LOANS FROM INTEREST LOANS FROM
INTEREST RATE COMMERCIAL BONDS CREDIT RATE % 30 COMMERCIAL BONDS CREDIT
2021 % 30 NOV PAPERS (EMTN) INSTITUTIONS NOV PAPERS (EMTN) INSTITUTIONS
2022 0.3–12.25 275 – 161 0.3 275 – –
2023 0.234 – – 2,051 0.234 – – 2,068
2024 0 – – – 0 – – –
2025 0 – – – 0 – – –
2026 1.7 – – 2,000 1.7 – – 2,000
2027 0 – – – 0 – – –
2028 0 – – – 0 – – –
2029 0.25 – 5,127 – 0.25 – 5,165 –
275 5,127 4,212 275 5,165 4,068
In the group, loans in other currencies are remeasured at the exchange rate on the balance sheet date. In the parent company, these loans in
respect of net investments in foreign operations are reported at original book value.
CASH FLOW FOREIGN
2021 CHANGE EXCHANGE1 ACQUISITIONS 2022
Loans from credit institutions 4,213 – 156 – 4,369
Commercial paper 275 675 – – 950
Bond 5,127 – 332 – 5,459
Total liabilities from financing activities 9,615 675 488 – 10,778
CASH FLOW FOREIGN
2020 CHANGE EXCHANGE1 ACQUISITIONS 2021
Loans from credit institutions 15,032 -10,819 – – 4,213
Commercial paper 1,300 -1,025 – – 275
Bond – – – 5,127 5,127
Total liabilities from financing activities 16,332 -11,844 – 5,127 9,615
1) Not affecting cash flow.
As of 30 November 2022 the group had non-current lease liabilities of SEK 49,282 m (45,379) and current lease liabilities of SEK 12,575 m (11,698),
which are reported in note 15.
25. APPROPRIATIONS
PARENT COMPANY
2022 2021
Group contributions paid -3,150 -10
Depreciation in excess of plan 11 6
Total -3,193 -4
26. INTERESTS IN GROUP COMPANIES
All companies are wholly owned.
CORPORATE ID NO. OF BOOK
2022 NUMBER SHARES VALUE DOMICILE
Parent company shareholding
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Sverige AB 556151-2376 1,250 200.1 Stockholm
H & M Online AB 556023-1663 1,150 30.6 Stockholm
H & M Hennes & Mauritz GBC AB 556070-1715 999 2.6 Stockholm
H & M Hennes & Mauritz International B.V. 40 0.1 Netherlands
H & M Hennes & Mauritz India Private Ltd 8,650,000 12.5 India
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Japan KK 99 11.7 Japan
FaBric Scandinavien AB 556663-8523 1,380 560.7 Tranås
H & M Hennes & Mauritz International AB 556782-4890 1,000 0.1 Stockholm
H & M Fashion AB 556922-7878 50,000 0.1 Stockholm
H & M Finance AB 559159-7090 50,000 0.1 Stockholm
Store Lens AB 559274-6936 25,000 0.0 Stockholm
H & M Finance BV 50,000 0.5 Netherlands
Total 819.1
2022 . CORPORATE ID NO DOMICILE
Subsidiaries’ holdings
H & M Hennes & Mauritz AS Norway
H & M Hennes & Mauritz A/S Denmark
H & M Hennes & Mauritz UK Ltd UK
H & M Hennes & Mauritz UK Services Ltd UK
H & M Hennes & Mauritz AG Switzerland
H & M Hennes & Mauritz B.V. & Co. KG Germany
Impuls GmbH Germany
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Logistik AB Co. KG Germany
H & M Hennes & Mauritz online shop AB & Co. KG Germany
& Other Stories AB & Co. KG Germany Germany
H & M New Business AB & Co. KG Germany Germany
H & M Services Germany AB & Co. KG Germany
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Holding B.V. Netherlands
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Netherlands B.V. Netherlands
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Management B.V. Netherlands
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Services B.V. Netherlands
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Belgium NV Belgium
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Logistics GBC NV Belgium
Cont. Note 26 interests in group companies
2022 . CORPORATE ID NO DOMICILE
H & M NB Belgium NV Belgium
H & M Hennes & Mauritz GesmbH Austria
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Oy Finland
H & M Hennes & Mauritz SARL France
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Logistics GBC France France
H & M Hennes & Mauritz LP US
H & M Services US Inc. US
H&M Retail USA Inc. US
H&M Fashion Inc. US
Hennes & Mauritz SL Spain
Hennes & Mauritz Services SL Spain
H & M Hennes & Mauritz sp. z o.o. Poland
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Logistics sp. z o.o. Poland
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Logistics 1 sp. z o.o. Poland
H & M Hennes & Mauritz CZ, s.r.o. Czech Republic
Hennes & Mauritz Lda Portuga
H & M Hennes & Mauritz S.r.l. Italy
H & M Services S.r.l. Italy
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Inc. Canada
H & M Hennes & Mauritz d.o.o. Slovenia
H & M Hennes & Mauritz (Ireland) Ltd Ireland
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Kft Hungary
H & M Hennes & Mauritz (Far East) Ltd Hong Kong SAR
Puls Trading Far East Ltd Hong Kong SAR
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Holding Asia Ltd Hong Kong SAR
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Ltd Hong Kong SAR
Hennes & Mauritz (Shanghai) Commercial Co Ltd Mainland China
H & M Hennes & Mauritz (Shanghai) Trading Co Ltd Mainland China
H & M Hennes & Mauritz (Shanghai) Corporation Service Co.,Ltd Mainland China
H & M Hennes & Mauritz SK s.r.o. Slovakia
H & M Hennes & Mauritz A.E. Greece
H & M Hennes & Mauritz LLC Russia
H & M Hennes & Mauritz TR Tekstil Ltd Sirketi Türkiye
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Ltd South Korea
H & M Hennes & Mauritz SRL Romania
H & M Hennes & Mauritz RO Services S.R.L. Romania
H & M Hennes & Mauritz d.o.o. za trgovinu Croatia
H & M Hennes & Mauritz PTE Ltd Singapore
H & M Hennes & Mauritz EOOD Bulgaria
Weekday Brands AB 556675-8438 Sweden
Singular AB 559226-1647 Sweden
H & M Hennes & Mauritz S.A. de C.V. Mexico
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Management S.A. de C.V. Mexico
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Servicios S.A. de C.V. Mexico
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Support S.A. de C.V. Mexico
H & M Hennes & Mauritz SIA Latvia
2022 . CORPORATE ID NO DOMICILE
H & M Retail SDN BHD Malaysia
H & M Hennes & Mauritz SpA Chile
H & M Hennes & Mauritz OÜ Estonia
H & M Hennes & Mauritz UAB Lithuania
H & M Hennes & Mauritz d.o.o. Serbia
H and M Hennes and Mauritz Proprietary Limited South Africa
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Pty Ltd Australia
H & M Hennes & Mauritz S.A.C. Peru
H & M Hennes & Mauritz (Macau) Limited Macao SAR
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Retail Private Limited India
COS Retail Private Limited India
H & M Services Pvt Ltd India
H & M Hennes & Mauritz INC Philippines
H & M Hennes & Mauritz New Zealand Limited New Zealand
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Cyprus Limited Cyprus
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Kazakhstan LLP Kazakhstan
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Colombia S.A.S. Colombia
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Iceland ehf Iceland
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Vietnam LLC Vietnam
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Georgia LLC Georgia
Hennes & Mauritz Uruguay S.A. Uruguay
H & M Hennes & Mauritz LLC Ukraine
H & M Hennes & Mauritz Bel LLC Belarus
H & M Hennes & Mauritz B&H d.o.o. Bosnia-Herzegovina
H&M Hennes & Mauritz Kosovo SH.P.K. Kosovo
H&M Hennes & Mauritz Albania SH.P.K. Albania
H&M Hennes & Mauritz MK dooel Skopje North Macedonia
H&M Hennes & Mauritz Brazil Importacoes Ltda. Brazil
H&M Hennes & Mauritz EC S.A.S. Ecuador
H&M Hennes & Mauritz LLC Puerto Rico
27. UNTAXED RESERVES
PARENT COMPANY
2022 2021
Depreciation in excess of plan 21 32
Total 21 32
28. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 31. DISTRIBUTION OF EARNINGS
A contingent liability is reported where there is a possible obligation for The board of directors proposes to the 2023 annual general meeting
which it remains to be confirmed whether the company has an existing that an ordinary dividend of SEK 6.50 per share is paid and that
obligation that could result in an outflow of resources. Alternatively, the remaining earnings at the disposal of the meeting are carried
there may be an existing obligation that does not fulfil the criteria for forward. See also information in the board’s dividend comment in the
reporting in the balance sheet as a provision or other liability since it is administration report on page 84.
not likely that an outflow of financial resources will be required in order
to settle the obligation or the amount cannot be reliably estimated. The board’s proposal to the 2023 AGM regarding distribution of
earnings
The group is involved in various types of disputes, but it is assessed
SEK
that no current disputes will have any significant impact on the group’s
At the disposal of the annual general meeting 16,009,039,715
results. For further information concerning tax disputes see note 11.
The board proposes a dividend to 10,592,964,441
Neither the group nor the parent company has any pledged assets. shareholders of SEK: 6.50 per share
To be carried forward as retained earnings 5,416,075,274
PARENT COMPANY
16,009,039,715
2022 2021
Parent company’s lease guarantees 12,687 9,650
Logistics 2,835 –
Solar parks 260 –
Total 15,782 9,650
29. INTEREST INCOME, INTEREST EXPENSE AND SIMILAR ITEMS
The parent company’s interest income and similar items consist of SEK
7 m (10) in interest income and SEK 21 m (28) in translation effects on
receivables and liabilities from group companies.
The parent company’s interest expense and similar items consist of
SEK -123 m (-242) in interest expense and SEK 0 m (0) in translation
effects on receivables and liabilities from group companies.
30. EVENTS AFTER THE CLOSING DATE
During the first quarter of 2023 the H&M group has acquired the
controlling interest in Sellpy, which thereby will be consolidated
starting in the first quarter. For more details, see the three-month
report for 2023.
Signing of the annual report
The undersigned hereby provide an assurance that the annual report and earnings. The administration report for the group and the parent
and the consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance company provides a true and fair view of the development of the
with the international accounting standards referred to in Regulation group’s and the parent company’s business, position and earnings, and
(EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of describes the significant risks and uncertainties faced by the parent
19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting standards, company and the companies making up the group.
and with generally accepted accounting practice, and that they provide
a true and fair view of the group’s and the parent company’s position Stockholm, 23 March 2023
Karl-Johan Persson Stina Bergfors Anders Dahlvig Lena Patriksson Keller
Chair of the Board Board member Board member Board member
Christian Sievert Erica Wiking Häger Niklas Zennström Danica Kragic Jensfelt
Board member Board member Board member Board member
Ingrid Godin Louise Wikholm Tim Gahnström Helena Helmersson
Board member Board member Board member Chief Executive Officer
Our audit report was submitted on 23 March 2023
Deloitte AB
Didrik Roos Authorised Public Accountant
Auditor’s report
To the general meeting of the shareholders of H & M Hennes & (SEK 58 305 million). In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets,
Mauritz AB (publ) (publ) management is required to complete an annual assessment of
corporate identity number 556042-7220 indicators of impairment of its store portfolio. Impairment charges of
equipment, tools, fixture and fittings and right of use assets have been
Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts recognized amounting to SEK 86 million and SEK 132 million, excluding
Opinions stores where a decision to close was taken prior to year-end.
We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts
of H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB (publ) for the financial year 2021-12- The Group considers that generally a grouping of stores based on a
01 - 2022-11-30, except for the sustainability report on pages 86-107. significant degree of revenue substitution including allocation of online
The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are sales constitute a cash generating unit and is assessed for impairment
included on pages 73-141 in this document. separately. The determination of the cash generating unit requires
management judgement and a high degree of estimation.
In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance
with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material When an impairment test has been conducted, management has
respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 30 estimated the recoverable amount of store assets based on their
November 2022 and its financial performance and cash flow for the value in use derived from a discounted cash flow model. This requires
year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The management’s judgement and a number of key assumptions, such as
consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the future revenue growth, changes in gross margin, long-term growth
Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the rates and applied discount rates.
financial position of the group as of 30 November 2022 and their
financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in A change in management’s judgements and estimates may have
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), a material effect on the financial statements and consequently
as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do impairment of store assets is considered a key audit matter.
not cover the statutory sustainability report on pages 86-107. The
statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the Accounting principles and disclosures related to accounting for
annual accounts and consolidated accounts. impairment of store assets can be found in note 1 (Accounting
principles), note 13 (Buildings, land and equipment) and note 15 (Leases).
We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders
adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to:
company and the group.
— Assessing the accounting principles for impairment of store assets
Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated in compliance with IFRS, with the support of accounting specialists,
accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report
that has been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in — Obtaining an understanding of the store impairment process as well
accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. as the forecasting process,
Basis for Opinions — Evaluating and challenging management’s range of impairment
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on indicators,
Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in — Evaluating and challenging management’s identification of cash
the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the generating units and the supporting documentation,
parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics
for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical — Evaluating and challenging key assumptions such as future revenue
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes growth, changes in gross margin, long-term growth rates and
that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited applied discount rates,
services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have
been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its parent — Reviewing the accuracy of past forecasts of growth rates and
company or its controlled companies within the EU. future cash flows to assess the level of accuracy of the forecasting
process,
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. — Assessing the appropriateness of the discount rates applied with
the involvement of our internal valuations specialists,
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our — Assessing the mechanical accuracy of the impairment models and
professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the the methodology applied by management for consistency with the
annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. requirements of IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, and
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in
forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated — Evaluating the appropriateness of disclosures made in the financial
accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on statements.
these matters.
Accounting for leases
Impairment of store assets The Group has a large number of lease contracts including
As of November 30, 2022, the Group held SEK 82 736 million of approximately 4,500 stores as well as multiple offices and warehouses
property, plant and equipment consisting mainly of equipment, globally. The right of use asset amounts to SEK 58 305 million as of
IFRS 16 Leases is complex and requires a high level of management’s — Obtaining an understanding of the internal control environment
judgements and estimates, such as determining the term of the lease regarding valuation of inventory and test identified key controls for
contracts and the interest rate of borrowing. Management is working design and implementation including related IT systems,
actively with the store portfolio meaning contracts are changed,
terminated, and renewed continuously. Accounting for leases requires — Observing a sample of physical inventory counts in stores and
a well-functioning process and a clear policy. Changes in judgements warehouses,
and assumptions made by management may have a material effect
on the financial statements and consequently accounting for leases is — On a sample basis testing valuation of inventory,
considered a key audit matter.
— Evaluating management’s estimates related to provisions for
Accounting principles and disclosures related to accounting for leases obsolescence and sales return, and
can be found in note 1 (Accounting principles) and note 15 (Leases).
— Evaluating the appropriateness of disclosures made in the financial
Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to: statements.
Other information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts
— Assessing the group’s accounting principles for leases in
The other information consists of the remuneration report and the
compliance with IFRS with the support of accounting specialists,
pages 2-54, 86-107 and 147-152. The Board of Directors and the
Managing Director are responsible for the other information.
— Obtaining an understanding of the internal control environment
regarding leases and test identified key controls for design and
implementation including related IT systems, Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does
not cover this other information and we do not express any form of
— Evaluating management’s assessment of lease terms including assurance conclusion regarding this other information.
renewals and extensions,
In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated
— Evaluating the methodology related to determining the incremental accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified above
borrowing rate and on a sample basis testing the rate applied, and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with
the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we
— Assessing the right of use asset for impairment, also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit
and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be materially
— Testing the accuracy of the underlying lease data by agreeing misstated.
a representative sample of leases to original contract or other
supporting information, If we, based on the work performed concerning this information,
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other
— Testing the mechanical accuracy of the lease calculations, and information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to
report in this regard.
— Evaluating the appropriateness of disclosures made in the financial
statements. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director
The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible
Valuation of stock-in-trade for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts
The Group carries a material level of stock-intrade held by central and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual
warehouses and stores, spread over a large number of countries Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in
globally. As of November 30, 2022, stock-in-trade amounts to accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors
SEK 42 495 million corresponding to 23% of the Group’s total assets. and the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal
Stock-in-trade is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of
Valuation of stock-in-trade requires clear policies and is subject annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material
to management’s judgements and estimates, such as calculating misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
the cost of custom duties and freight and estimating a provision
for obsolescence and sales returns. The current macroeconomic In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The
environment has increased the uncertainty and customer behaviour Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the
is rapidly changing within the retail industry, impacting the need assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a
to continuously revisit and evaluate the method in use. Changes in going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going
judgements and assumptions made by management may have a concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going
material effect on the financial statements and consequently valuation concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of
of stock-in-trade is considered a key audit matter. Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company,
to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Accounting principles and disclosures related to stock-in-trade can be
found in note 1 (Accounting principles) and note 16 (Stock-in-trade). The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s
responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the
Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to: company’s financial reporting process.
— Assessing the group’s accounting principles for inventory in Auditor’s responsibility
compliance with IFRS with the support of accounting specialists, Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from
auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a independence, and to communicate with them all relationships
high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our
in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate
in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. threats or safeguards applied.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit
basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most
important assessed risks for material misstatement, and are therefore
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s
judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter.
We also:
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
— Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual Opinions
accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of
risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to Directors and the Managing Director of H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB
provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material (publ) for the financial year 2021-12-01 - 2022-11-30 and the proposed
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting appropriations of the company’s profit or loss.
from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit
to be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory
— Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors
to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial
in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an year.
opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control.
Basis for Opinions
— Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted
reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those
made by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities
section. We are independent of the parent company and the group in
— Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and
Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with
in preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We these requirements.
also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as
to whether any material uncertainty exists related to events or We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s and the appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions.
group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director
our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the annual accounts
The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for
and consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate,
appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of
to modify our opinion about the annual accounts and consolidated
a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is
accounts. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence
justifiable considering the requirements which the company’s and
obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future
the group’s type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the
events or conditions may cause a company and a group to cease to
parent company’s and the group’s equity, consolidation requirements,
continue as a going concern.
liquidity and position in general.
— Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of
The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization
the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the
and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes
disclosures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated
among other things continuous assessment of the company’s and
accounts represent the underlying transactions and events in a
the group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s
manner that achieves fair presentation.
organization is designed so that the accounting, management of
assets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled
— Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the
in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the
financial information of the entities or business activities within the
ongoing administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines
group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are
and instructions and among other matters take measures that are
responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the
necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law
group audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions.
and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner.
We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters,
Auditor’s responsibility
the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of
Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby
significant audit findings during our audit, including any significant
our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence
deficiencies in internal control that we identified.
to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member
of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material
— has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director
give rise to liability to the company, or The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for
the preparation of the Esef report in accordance with the Chapter 16,
— in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, Section 4 a of the Swedish Securities Market Act (2007:528), and for
the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. such internal control that the Board of Directors and the Managing
Director determine is necessary to prepare the Esef report without
Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error.
the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to
assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in Auditor’s responsibility
accordance with the Companies Act. Our responsibility is to obtain reasonable assurance whether the Esef
report is in all material respects prepared in a format that meets the
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a requirements of Chapter 16, Section 4(a) of the Swedish Securities
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally Market Act (2007:528), based on the procedures performed.
accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions
or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the RevR 18 requires us to plan and execute procedures to achieve
proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in reasonable assurance that the Esef report is prepared in a format that
accordance with the Companies Act. meets these requirements.
As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but it is not a
standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and maintain guarantee that an engagement carried out according to RevR 18 and
professional scepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect
administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or
audit procedures performed are based on our professional judgment in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the
with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the Esef report.
the examination on such actions, areas and relationships that are
material for the operations and where deviations and violations would The audit firm applies International Standard on Quality Management
have particular importance for the company’s situation. We examine 1, which requires the firm to design, implement and operate a system
and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, actions taken of quality management including policies and procedures regarding
and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinion concerning compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and
discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we
examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection The examination involves obtaining evidence, through various
of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the procedures, that the Esef report has been prepared in a format that
proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. enables uniform electronic reporting of the annual accounts and
consolidated accounts. The procedures selected depend on the
The auditor’s examination of the Esef report auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material
Opinion misstatement in the report, whether due to fraud or error. In carrying
In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and out this risk assessment, and in order to design audit procedures that
consolidated accounts, we have also examined that the Board of are appropriate in the circumstances, the auditor considers those
Directors and the Managing Director have prepared the annual elements of internal control that are relevant to the preparation of the
accounts and consolidated accounts in a format that enables uniform Esef report by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director, but
electronic reporting (the Esef report) pursuant to Chapter 16, Section not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of
4 a of the Swedish Securities Market Act (2007:528) for H & M Hennes those internal controls. The examination also includes an evaluation of
& Mauritz AB (publ) for the financial year 2021-12-01 – 2022-11-30. the appropriateness and reasonableness of assumptions made by the
Board of Directors and the Managing Director.
Our examination and our opinion relate only to the statutory
requirements. The procedures mainly include a validation that the Esef report has
been prepared in a valid XHTML format and a reconciliation of the Esef
In our opinion, the Esef report has been prepared in a format that, in all report with the audited annual accounts and consolidated accounts.
material respects, enables uniform electronic reporting.
Furthermore, the procedures also include an assessment of whether
Basis for opinion the consolidated statement of financial performance, financial position,
We have performed the examination in accordance with FAR’s changes in equity and cash flow in the Esef report have been marked
recommendation RevR 18 Examination of the Esef report. Our with iXBRL in accordance with what follows from the Esef regulation.
responsibility under this recommendation is described in more detail
in the Auditors’ responsibility section. We are independent of H & M The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report
Hennes & Mauritz AB (publ) in accordance with professional ethics The board of directors is responsible for the statutory sustainability
for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical report on pages 86-107, and that it is prepared in accordance with the
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. Annual Accounts Act.
We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor´s opinion regarding the
statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of
in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards
in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with
sufficient basis for our opinion.
A statutory sustainability report has been prepared.
Deloitte AB, was appointed auditor of H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB
(publ) by the general meeting of the shareholders on the 2022-05-04
and has been the company’s auditor since 2021-05-06.
Stockholm, March 23, 2023
Deloitte AB
Didrik Roos
Authorized Public Accountant
Key financial performance measures
This report contains key financial performance measures in GROUP
accordance with the framework for financial reporting applied by the
GROSS MARGIN 2022 2021
H&M group, which is based on IFRS. Other performance measures and
indicators are also used to follow up, analyse and govern the business Net sales 223,553 198,967
and to provide the H&M group’s stakeholders with financial information Gross profit 113,277 105,006
concerning the group’s financial position, results and performance in a
Gross margin 50.7% 52.8%
consistent way.
Definition: Gross profit in relation to net sales.
These other performance measures and indicators are considered
necessary in order to be able to monitor performance against the
Reason for use: This is one of the ways in which H&M measures
group’s financial targets. A combination of continual growth, high
profitability. Gross profit is affected by a number of factors such as the
profitability, stable cash flow and using capital in the right way is
product assortment, price development and cost changes.
intended to generate a high overall return for the H&M group’s
shareholders. It is therefore relevant to present performance measures
relating to growth, profitability and capital, per-share measures and GROUP
terms relating to capital on a continuous basis.
OPERATING PROFIT 2022 2021
Net sales 223,553 198,967
The performance measures and indicators used, referred to and
presented in the reporting are defined as shown in the list below. Cost of goods sold -110,276 -93,961
Selling expenses -94,542 -80,535
Measures of profit and return
Administrative expenses -11,566 -9,216
GROUP Operating profit 7,169 15,255
RETURN ON EQUITY 2022 2021
Definition: Net sales minus all costs attributable to operations but
Profit for the year 3,566 11,010
excluding net financial items and tax.
Average shareholders’ equity 55,388 57,321
Return on equity 6.4% 19.2% Reason for use: An indicator of the result of operating activities.
Definition: Profit for the year in relation to average equity. GROUP
OPERATING MARGIN 2022 2021
Reason for use: Return on equity is used as a measure of how
Net sales 223,553 198,967
investments are used to generate increased revenue.
Operating profit 7,169 15,255
GROUP Operating margin 3.2% 7.7%
RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED 2022 2021
Profit after financial items 6,216 14,300 Definition: Operating profit as a percentage of net sales for the year.
Interest expense 1,115 1,158
Reason for use: An indicator of operational profitability.
Average shareholders’ equity 55,388 57,321
Average interest-bearing liabilities 70,044 73,898
GROUP
Return on capital employed 5.8% 11.8% EBITDA 2022 2021
Operating profit 7,169 15,255
Definition: Profit after financial items plus interest expense in relation
to average equity plus average interest-bearing liabilities. Depreciation, amortisation
and write-downs 22,579 22,320
Reason for use: A measure of profitability after taking into EBITDA 29,748 37,575
consideration the amount of capital employed. A higher return
on capital employed indicates that the capital is being used more
effectively. Depreciation and write-downs
of right-of-use assets -12,105 -11,988
GROUP EBITDA excl. IFRS 16 17,643 25,587
GROSS PROFIT 2022 2021
Net sales 223,553 198,967 Definition: EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and
Amortisation). Operating profit before interest, taxes, depreciation,
Cost of goods sold -110,276 -93,961
amortisation, write-downs and impairment incl. and excl. IFRS 16
Gross profit 113,277 105,006 respectively.
Definition: Net sales minus cost of goods sold. Reason for use: A measure that complements operating profit, since it
shows the cash surplus from operations.
Reason for use: This is one of the ways in which H&M measures
Cont. Key financial performance measures
Capital performance measures
GROUP
TOTAL OPERATING
WORKING CAPITAL 2022 2021
GROUP
Operating working capital 24,419 19,983
SHARE OF RISK-BEARING CAPITAL 2022 2021
Tax assets 3,212 2,834
Shareholders’ equity 50,757 60,018
Other receivables 4,601 3,509
Deferred tax liability 3,273 3,601
Prepaid expenses 4,494 4,807
Balance sheet total 182,048 179,781
Tax liabilities -1,843 -1,441
Share of risk-bearing capital 29.7% 35.4%
Other liabilities -6,048 -5,149
Definition: Equity plus deferred tax liability in relation to the balance Accrued expenses and deferred
sheet total. income -25,050 -22,071
Total working capital 3,785 2,472
Reason for use: Shows financial potential and independence to
develop the business.
Definition: Operating working capital plus tax assets, other receivables
and prepaid expenses minus tax liabilities, other liabilities and accrued
GROUP expenses and deferred income.
EQUITY/ASSETS RATIO 2022 2021
Reason for use: Assesses a company’s liquidity and operating
Shareholders’ equity 50,757 60,018
efficiency by looking at current assets and current liabilities that are
Balance sheet total 182,048 179,781 essential to business operations.
Equity/assets ratio 27.9% 33.4%
GROUP
Definition: Equity in relation to the balance sheet total.
NET DEBT 2022 2021
Provisions for pensions 333 428
Reason for use: Shows financial potential and independence to
develop the business. Interest-bearing liabilities leases 61,857 57,077
Liabilities to credit institutions 10,778 9,614
GROUP Cash and cash equivalents -21,707 -27,471
CAPITAL EMPLOYED 2022 2021 Net debt 51,261 39,648
Shareholders’ equity 50,757 60,018
Interest-bearing liabilities leases -61,857 -57,077
Interest-bearing liabilities 72,968 67,119
Net debt excl. IFRS 16 -10,596 -17,429
Capital employed 123,725 127,137
Definition: Interest-bearing liabilities incl. and excl. IFRS 16 respectively
Definition: Equity plus interest-bearing liabilities. including pension liabilities less cash and cash equivalents as well as
short- term investments.
Reason for use: Shows the company’s ability to meet current capital
commitments. Reason for use: Used to show the net value of interest-bearing assets
and interest-bearing liabilities.
GROUP
GROUP
OPERATING WORKING CAPITAL 2022 2021
FINANCIAL NET DEBT/CASH 2022 2021
Accounts receivable 3,014 3,059
Interest-bearing liabilities excluding
Stock-in-trade 42,495 37,306
lease liabilities and provisions for
Accounts payable -21,090 -20,382 pensions 10,778 9,614
Operating working capital 24,419 19,983 Cash and cash equivalents and short-
term investments -21,707 -27,471
Definition: Accounts receivable plus stock-in-trade minus accounts
Financial net debt (+) / net cash (-) -10,929 -17,857
payable.
Definition: Interest-bearing liabilities exclud- ing lease liabilities and
Reason for use: Assesses a company’s liquidity and operating
provisions for pensions less cash and cash equivalents and short-term
efficiency by looking at current assets and current liabilities that are
investments.
held for trading and are essential to business operations.
Reason for use: Used to show the net of the company’s borrowing,
cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments.
Cont. Key financial performance measures
GROUP GROUP
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING
OPERATING CASH FLOW/ EBITDA 2022 2021 ACTIVITIES PER SHARE 2022 2021
Cash flow from operating activities 24,476 44,619 Cash flow from operating activities 24,476 44,619
EBITDA 29,748 37,575 Average number of shares outstanding,
thousands 1,649,847 1,655,072
Operating cash flow/EBITDA 82.3% 118.7%
Cash flow from operating activities
per share 14.84 26.96
Definition: Cash flow from operating activities in relation to EBITDA.
Reason for use: Measure of how much cash flow is generated by Definition: Cash flow from operating activities for the period divided by
operating activities in relation to the profit shown in the income the number of shares.
statement.
Reason for use: This indicator shows cash flow from operating
activities per share, which is significant for how the company can
Per-share performance measures finance its investments.
GROUP GROUP
EQUITY PER SHARE 2022 2021 P/E RATIO 2022 2021
Shareholders’ equity 50,757 60,018 Price per share at year-end 116.66 160.00
Number of shares outstanding as of the Earnings per share 2.16 6.65
closing day, thousands 1,629,687 1,655,072 P/E ratio 54 24
Equity per share 31.15 36.26
Definition: Price per share divided by earnings per share.
Definition: Equity divided by the number of shares.
Reason for use: This indicator shows how the profit for the period
Reason for use: This indicator can show over time whether the relates to the price of the shares.
company is increasing the share- holders’ capital.
The H&M share
KEY RATIOS PER SHARE 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018
Shareholders’ equity per share, SEK1 31.15 36.26 33.00 34.48 35.37
Earnings per share, SEK1 2.16 6.65 0.75 8.12 7.64
Change from previous year, % -68 +787 -91 +6 -22
Dividend per share excluding own shares, SEK1, 2 6.50 6.50 0.00 9.75 9.75
Share price on 30 November, SEK 116.66 160.00 181.60 184.84 167.64
P/E ratio 54 24 242 23 22
1) Before and after dilution, excluding own shares.
2) Dividend which was decided and paid during the year.
MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS, 30 NOVEMBER 2022
NO. OF SHARES % OF TOTAL SHARES % OF VOTING RIGHTS
The Stefan Persson family and related companies 883,894,190 53.4 77.3
The Lottie Tham family and related companies 88,680,400 5.4 2.6
State Street Bank and Trust CO, W9 36,569,507 2.2 1.1
Swedbank Robur Fonder 32,405,200 2.0 0.9
H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB 25,385,163 1.5 0.8
Handelsbanken fonder 24,581,043 1.5 0.7
Fjärde AP-fonden 21,507,975 1.3 0.6
AMF – Försäkring och Fonder 20,256,776 1.2 0.6
JP Morgan Chase Bank NA 17,970,242 1.1 0.5
BNY Mellon SA/NV (Former BNY), W8IMY 15,678,620 0.9 0.5
DISTRIBUTION OF SHARES, 30 NOVEMBER 2022
NO. OF NO. OF AVERAGE SHARES
SHAREHOLDING SHAREHOLDERS % SHARES % PER SHAREHOLDER
1–500 207,503 81.5 23,980,747 1.4 116
501–1,000 21,405 8.4 16,789,236 1.0 784
1,001–5,000 20,305 8.0 45,500,755 2.8 2,241
5,001–10,000 2,714 1.1 19,926,794 1.2 7,342
10,001–15,000 819 0.3 10,249,425 0.6 12,515
15,001–20,000 460 0.2 8,175,555 0.5 17,773
20,001– 1,289 0.5 1,530,449,488 92.5 1,187,315
Total 254,495 100.0 1,655,072,000 100.0 6,503
DEVELOPMENT OF THE H&M SHARE PRICE IN SEK OVER THE PAST TEN YEARS
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Annual general meeting Calendar
DATE AND VENUE H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB will provide the following information:
H&M’s annual general meeting 2023 will be held on Thursday 4 May
2023 at 3 p.m. (CEST) in the Erling Persson Hall, Aula Medica, Karolinska 30 March 2023 Three-month report
Institutet in Solna. There is a possibility of postal voting. 4 May 2023 Annual general meeting 2023 at 3 p.m. (CEST)
29 June 2023 Six-month report
For more information about the annual general meeting, see the notice 28 September 2023 Nine-month report
of the meeting at hmgroup.com/agm. 31 January 2024 Full-year report
DIVIDEND
The board of directors has resolved to propose to the annual general
meeting on 4 May 2023 that a dividend of SEK 6.50 per share is paid.
The board proposes that the dividend is paid in two instalments during
the year – one in May and one in November.
The proposed record date for the first dividend payment of SEK
3.25 per share is 8 May 2023. With this record date, the dividend is
expected to be paid out by Euroclear Sweden AB on 11 May 2023.
To be entitled to receive the dividend H&M shares must have been
purchased no later than 4 May 2023. The ex-dividend date is 5 May
2023.
The record date proposed for the second dividend payment of
SEK 3.25 per share is 10 November 2023. With this record date, the
dividend is expected to be paid out by Euroclear Sweden AB on 15
November 2023.
To be entitled to receive the second dividend instalment H&M shares
must have been purchased no later than 8 November 2023. The ex-
dividend date is 11 November 2023.
Contact details
HEAD OFFICE
H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB,
Mäster Samuelsgatan 46A, SE-106 38 Stockholm,
Sweden
Telephone: +46 (0)8 796 55 00
CONTACTS
Investor Relations Nils Vinge
Communications Andreas Eriksson
Corporate Governance Henrik Lundin
DISTRIBUTION OF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
The H&M group sends out the printed version of the Annual and
Sustainability Report to shareholders who have specifically requested
a printed version. The annual and sustainability report is also available
to read and download at hmgroup.com.
For information about the H&M group’s various brands and business
ventures see:
hm.com
cosstores.com
weekday.com
monki.com
stories.com
arket.com
afound.com
singular-society.com
creatorstudio.com
PRODUCTION