Sustainable in a
Generation Plan
2022 Scorecard
The world we want tomorrow
starts with how we do business today.
Launched in 2017, the Sustainable in a Generation plan guides our sustainability efforts.
We focus on four interconnected areas for purposeful growth:
Healthy Planet, Thriving People, Nourishing Wellbeing, and Transforming Packaging.
Through intentional, consistent action, Mars strives to create a better world for people and pets alike.
This scorecard measures our commitment to and progress toward these ambitious, science-
backed goals to drive positive change for people and the planet.
Our Goal For
A Healthy Planet
We’re committed to reducing our total environmental impact
in line with what science says must happen to keep the planet
healthy: reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, tackling
unsustainable water use, and holding our land use flat even as our
business grows.
8% 18% 2%
Reduction in Reduction in Reduction in Land Use
Greenhouse Gases Unsustainable Water Use
Goal: hold flat the total land
Goal: reduce total greenhouse Goal: eliminate unsustainable
area associated with our value
water use in our value chain,
gas emissions across our value
chain
starting with a 50% reduction
chain by 27% by 2025 and
by 2025
achieve net zero emissions
by 2050
Tracked against 2015 baseline
Some recent acquisitions may not have been fully incorporated into our baseline at the time of the publication of this report and for the reporting year.
Our 2022 Highlights
Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Creating a Climate Smart Future & than 500 Mars-trained reef builders and ambassadors,
825,000 corals have been planted on 55,000 reef stars.
Tackling Deforestation
As we accelerate our progress toward our commitment to
achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions in our full value In July of 2023, Mars partnered with the government,
chain, Mars has reduced the GHG emissions of its full value Mars is accelerating efforts to stop deforestation and the national parks, academia, NGOs, Tourism & Diving Industry
chain by 8% as of 2022. This is the result of our work to stop conversion of natural ecosystems in cocoa, beef, soy, palm, and other businesses from across the whole of Indonesia for
deforestation in cocoa, beef, soy, and palm, to reformulate pulp and paper supply chains. We’re on track for our goal “The Big Build”—a unique collaborative coral reef restoration
our recipes to be climate smart, and to reduce the emissions of a deforestation- and conversion-free supply chain for effort to plant 30,000 coral fragments using 2,000 Reef Stars
from our operations. We’ve reduced the footprint of our 100% of the cocoa we source by 2025. This is the largest over just four days at SHEBA® Hope Grows in Spermonde
direct operations by 29% by improving our operational and most significant first step that Mars Snacking and Archipelago, Indonesia, one of the world’s largest restoration
efficiency, and by installing more energy efficient equipment Mars, Incorporated, can take toward delivering on our efforts.
and processes and through our work scaling up renewable ambition to hold flat our land use, reduce greenhouse gas
* Based on information from suppliers. Numbers are rounded and cover data through the end of
electricity around the globe and beginning to transition away emissions from our value chain by 27% by 2025 (vs our 2015
2022 unless stated differently.
from fossil-fuel heat sources. In 2022, Mars procured 58% baseline), and achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions
renewable electricity. across our full value chain by 2050.
In 2022, the Mars Snacking ice cream factory in Steinbourg Since 2022, more than 68% of our cocoa is sourced through
(Alsace), France completed a transition to 100% electric our Responsible Cocoa program and 51% of our global
power and fully transitioned away from fossil fuels. This is cocoa supply is traced to farm boundaries from first point
our first factory in the world to stop the direct use of fossil of purchase. We polygon mapped 89% (>215.000)* of the
fuels for thermal heat or electricity and is now sourcing farm plots from which we source cocoa—tracing the entire
certified renewable electricity (wind, hydroelectric, and perimeter of a farm rather than just one GPS location point to
solar). increase transparency and traceability.
ROYAL CANIN® has committed to become certified carbon We’ve also planted more than 2 million non-cocoa trees*
neutral by 2025, with its first product range achieving carbon to increase shade and biodiversity and trained more than
neutral certification for 2022. Beginning in 2023, all MARS® 130,000 farmers* on forest protection protocols. In
Bars sold in the U.K., Ireland and Canada will be certified our supply chain, 50,000* farmers in 2022 have applied
carbon neutral. Supporting this action, 100% of cocoa used agroforestry techniques, and more than 376,000 hectares*
in our European Mars Snacking direct factory operations will in our global cocoa supply chain were included in a
be verified as Responsibly Sourced Cocoa. This means we deforestation risk assessment.
purchase a volume of responsibly sourced cocoa equivalent
to the volumes used in our European production. Any Almost 3,000 hectares of pasture land in Latin America are
emissions that cannot be eliminated for these Mars bars will currently undergoing regeneration into healthy, productive
be offset by high quality carbon removal credits based on soil through our venture Andean Cacao. In just two
climate solutions like reforestation and land restoration. years, Andean Cacao has managed to increase the organic
matter content in the soil by 14% using regenerative practices
and cocoa agroforestry design. These efforts will aid in
carbon sequestration and contribute to the company’s goal
of producing climate-smart cocoa
Over the past decade, Mars and its partners have restored
coral reefs in over 30 restoration sites, across seven countries
using The Mars Assisted Reef Restoration System (MARRS).
Coral cover has increased from less than 5% to 70% within
Our Goal For
Thriving People
At Mars, we believe we have a responsibility to improve the
lives of the people in our value chain. We strive to enable them
to thrive through human rights due diligence, commitments to
improving workplace conditions and income disparity, and efforts
to unlock opportunities for the most vulnerable populations.
539,170 100,000+ 70,000+
Total People Reached Farmers Impacted Women Reached through
through Human Rights through Increased Incomes Empowerment Efforts
and Income Efforts
Goal: helping to increase Goal: engaging women in
Goal: farmers, workers, women farmers’ incomes with supply chains through income
and children covered by programs that combine good programs, with a focus on
programs designed to improve agricultural practices, access to interventions that boost their
human rights and incomes inputs, the latest plant science, savings rates and develop
price premiums and/or other entrepreneurial skills.
ongoing engagement.
Our 2022 Highlights
Increasing Income Advancing Respect Unlocking Opportunities
for Human Rights for Women
At Mars, we believe everyone working within our extended
supply chains should earn a sufficient income to maintain
Mars is committed to respecting human rights in our value In the world Mars strives to create for tomorrow, women
a decent standard of living. Our plan is based on investing
chain, prioritizing based on where risks to people are are reaching their full potential. That’s why Mars is acting
in activities that have a tangible impact on the ground,
greatest, as outlined in the UN Guiding Principles on Business now to advance gender equality in its workplaces, in the
beginning with our cocoa, mint and rice supply chains, where
and Human Rights. marketplace, and in communities where it sources raw
a large number of farmers are estimated to live in poverty.
materials.
Embedding child labor monitoring and remediation systems
Since launching in 2017, the Farmer Income Lab, a “think-do”
into the cocoa supply chain is key to understanding the risks In our workplaces, women hold 48% of our management
tank founded by Mars, has reviewed more than 1,500 studies
to people working within it. Our first priority is to ensure our roles. We define a gender-balanced team as having 40-60%
detailing common interventions to increase farmer income.
suppliers have robust child and forced labor monitoring and of any one gender. We know we have more work to do, but
FIL found that only three of them raised incomes by more
remediation systems in place that are designed to identify, are pleased to have improved representation of women in
than 50 percent and could be sustained over time- bundling
prevent and help to remediate cases of child labor and forced senior leadership roles across our general management and
interventions, customizing approaches, and partnering to
labor as appropriate. global leadership population.
drive impact at scale. Mars is applying these findings and
other insights from the Lab in a new test-and-learn approach
We’ve significantly expanded child labor monitoring and We remain committed to equal pay for equal work for all
that combines best-practice interventions to unlock the
remediation systems (CLMRS) across our cocoa supply chain Associates. We activated more than 30 Associate Resource
entrepreneurship of farmers, diversify income streams
in West Africa. In total, 65% of our supply from Ghana, Côte Groups (ARGs) focused on women as part of a growing
and improve productivity to enhance farm resilience and
d’ Ivoire, Cameroon and Nigeria were covered by CLMRS, network of 90+ ARGs and launched our Women
accelerate incomes. The aim is to scale successful measures
reaching 135,000 cocoa farming families. By 2025, 100% and Allies global ARG in early 2023. These groups help create
more widely and put 15,000 cocoa farmers on a path to
will be covered. Additionally, more than 152,000 farmers an environment where all women at Mars can thrive and
sustainable living income.
received human rights sensitization and training. reach their full potential.
Through the Livelihood Ecosystem Advancement Program
As part of its broader Human Rights Action Plan, Mars Petcare In our cocoa supply chain in collaboration with CARE,
(LEAP) program, we aim to help more than 70% of
has partnered with USAID to advance respect for rights in the the Mars Women for Change Village Savings and Loans
participating farmers in Cote d’Ivoire (5,000 total) achieve
fishing industry, with an initial focus on labor risks in the Thai Association (VLSA) program reached over 77,000 members
a living income by 2030. This would translate to over 100%
fishing sector. in Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana, with more than 60,000
income growth for most participating households and
members in communities linked to Mars’ supply chain.
would help transform the rural economy to sustain incomes
In Thailand, we reached approximately 12,000 people Over 75% of VSLA members are women and benefit from
and economic growth beyond the program. And through
through our “Supplier Advance” coaching program at two more than $7.4 million in total savings the program has
ACTIVE, a partnership with USAID and I4DI, we are projected
Tier 1 supplier sites in Thailand – with a focus on health generated.
to increase the income of 9,000 farmers in Indonesia by
and safety, fair treatment at work and improved working
up to 15% over four years and reduce by 20% the number
conditions. And building on our #HereToBeHeard global listening
of participating farmers living below the living income
study, we launched a series of conversations, bringing
benchmark.
We are encouraged by the effectiveness of the fishing together individuals to share their experiences with gender
industry support centers we have supported since 2019. stereotypes in parenting and leadership to help create
The centers connected more than 13,500 people—primarily meaningful change to create a world where women can
migrant workers—to legal services, education and medical reach their full potential.
support since implementation. Together with Stella Maris,
we’ve expanded our partnership to provide grievance
support services to fishery workers on hundreds of fishing
vessels at two major landing ports in Thailand.
Our Goal For
Nourishing Wellbeing
Good nutrition, health and wellbeing are essential for people and
pets to lead happier, healthier lives. We use our global reach to
enhance our products’ quality and nutrition, provide more people
around the world with access to healthy meals, and support
access to homes and veterinary care for pets in need. And we do it
all while remaining committed to responsible marketing.
99.5% &
4.7 Billion 17
99.3%
Healthy Meals Delivered Scientific Reports,Presentations
by Mars Food & Nutrition and Posters Shared
Media Placement Compliance Goal: the Mars Global Food
Goal: Deliver 5.5 billion healthy & Media Content Safety Center invests in,
meals per year by 2025 Compliance explores and develops science
Goal: In our top 15 markets, and technology solutions to
achieve at least 97% media help address the most pressing
placement compliance across challenges facing the global
TV, other broadcast channels, food supply chain
digital, social media and print,
and achieve at least 95% media
content compliance++
++ Learn more about responsible marketing
Our 2022 Highlights
Providing Healthy Food Improvements in gender parity include: provides Mars with the computational infrastructure required
to carry out next-generation data analytics processes and
We believe a better world tomorrow is one where more • Female characters are now as likely as male characters gives us access to scientists with expertise in computational
people have access to healthy meals and more people cook to be depicted in leadership positions. methods. Mars is using MARVEL in the food safety arena
and sit down together to enjoy shared meals. • Female characters have the same amount of screen to predict the likelihood of aflatoxin in maize, ensuring
time as male characters. that Mars can make informed predictions about aflatoxin
We strive to ensure we’re providing healthy food. In 2022, we • There are no gender differences for portrayals of work. contamination and that the raw materials that we buy are
delivered 4.7 billion healthy meals—bringing us to more safe for everyone.
than 9 billion healthy meals since 2021.
Caring for Pets’ Futures
We’re also researching new factors in health through our The MARS PETCARE BIOBANK™ aims to be the largest, most
COcoa Supplement and Multivitamin Outcomes Study comprehensive real-world study of its kind. We are planning
(COSMOS), a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
to recruit 20,000 pets (10,000 dogs and 10,000 cats) over
trial of 21,000 men and women over 5 years.Farmer Income 10 years. The biobank study will generate data from the
Lab samples collected in order to gain insights about changes
in health status and understand the differences between
The first results from COSMOS have been published in The pets that remain healthy as they age and pets that develop
American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, and we’re excited by diseases. By enrolling their pets in the study, pet owners can
the promise shown for flavanols in reducing cardiovascular help enable new scientific discoveries to improve pet health
disease risk, a major global health challenge. for generations to come.
Responsible Marketing In collaboration with Process Integration and Predictive
Analytics (PIPA) and the Royal Veterinary College, our Antech
At Mars, we pride ourselves on being a leader in responsible Diagnostics colleagues developed an AI-driven diagnostic
marketing and driving growth by doing what is right. We test that can accurately predict a cat’s chances of developing
are proud to report a 99.5% compliance result for our chronic kidney disease (CKD) up to two years before any
placement commitments and a 99.3% compliance result for clinical signs. So far, owners of more than 200,000 cats
our content commitments, based on 2021 audit data. And have been given early warning that their pets are at risk of
we’re making strides toward gender-parity in all our materials developing this condition. CKD is also common in dogs.
so women always have a seat at the table. Our placement Because they live shorter lives than cats with CKD, early
commitments include: detection is vital. In partnership with PIPA, our scientists
and veterinary teams built a computer algorithm that can
• No marketing targeted to children under 13 years old predict with 99% accuracy which dogs would not go on to
• No placement of vending machines or event develop CKD in the next 3.5 years.
sponsorship in primary schools
• No data collection for children under 16 years old
Ensuring Safe Food
Our content commitments include: A focus on food safety is critical to protecting people, pets
and the planet. Through the Mars Global Food Safety Center
• Encouraging healthy lifestyles and responsible (GFSC) and beyond, we are striving to increase supply
consumption chain resilience and work in partnership with NGOs—such
• No marketing to primarily appeal to children under 13 as World Food Programme, the UN Food and Agriculture
years old Organization, universities, regulators, and industries around
• Following our advertising guidelines for positive the world—to develop novel solutions, improve practices and
behaviors advance technology.
Our Goal For
Transforming Packaging
At Mars, we intend to contribute to a circular economy where
packaging material never becomes waste. We’re investing
hundreds of millions of dollars and redesigning more than 12,000
packaging components to ensure we’re using 100% recyclable,
reusable or compostable packaging.
Our top 300 executives now have remuneration linked to
delivering against our packaging targets, highlighting the
importance of these commitments, and today, almost half of our
packaging portfolio is undergoing redesign.
20% 45% ~1,000
or 1%
of Packaging in Our Portfolio of Packaging Is Designed
Is Reusable, Recyclable for Recycling
or Compostable
Goal: Redesign our packaging Metric Tons of
Goal: Transform 100% of to fit infrastructure that exists Recycled Content
our portfolio into reusable, today or is likely to exist in the
Goal: Incorporate 30% recycled
recyclable or compostable near future. ‡
content in our packaging
packaging
Tracked against 2019 baseline
Our 2022 Highlights
Eliminating Unnecessary Plastic and Redesigning Packaging to be In a recent collaboration with packaging supplier Berry ship any flexible and complex plastic waste for recycling in
Global, we launched new club jars made from recycled exchange for reward points and discounts on Mars Petcare
Improving Packaging Recyclability Refilled and Reused
content for M&M’S®, STARBURST®, and SKITTLES®. The new products and other brands. The app is available in the Apple
jars contain 15% recycled plastic, replacing about 300 tons App Store and Google Play.
Our highest priority is to eliminate all problematic and We’re exploring innovative reuse models that eliminate waste
of virgin plastic per year and saving 374 metric tons of
unnecessary packaging materials from our portfolio, to altogether, with a goal to launch at least 10 new programs
carbon dioxide. To date, more than 150,000 bags of used plastic packaging
prevent any of our packages from contaminating the that test reusable packaging in markets. We’re already well
have been collected and converted into useful products.
recycling stream, and to reduce our use of virgin plastic. underway with nine programs deployed so far.
On World Environment Day in 2022, Mars Petcare joined We even used cat-shaped paving blocks made of waste
Following elimination we are redesigning our remaining
forces with Second Life, a social enterprise that supports plastic to pave outdoor areas of our new pet food
packaging to be recyclable or compostable, ensuring that In collaboration with Bestore in China, our reusable M&M’S®
companies to develop recycling solutions for packaging manufacturing plant in Chonburi!
it fits with the recycling infrastructure that either exists packaging had a 24% refill rate across 17 outlets in five cities.
that would otherwise be discarded as waste. Together, we
today or is likely to exist in the future in the markets where We estimate the refills will save about seven tons of plastic
launched the SWAP Recycling app, which allows users to
we operate, making it easier for consumers to recycle our every year.
packaging.
In France, Mars Snacking and Mars Petcare launched their
Select “Standard” and “More to Share” sharing pouches of first-ever bulk delivery system with supermarket giant
some of Mars Snacking U.K.’s favorites are now narrower in Carrefour. By 2030, all Carrefour stores larger than 400
the U.K. and Ireland. This has reduced plastic used by around square meters will dedicate 20% of their space to bulk sales,
647,000 square yards a year—the equivalent area of over which is a great example of why we’re participating with early
90 football fields. It also means that with some brands, we test-and-learns like these as part of our packaging redesign
can fit more packs into the boxes we ship, increasing our strategy.
efficiency and taking the equivalent of 90 truckloads of
boxes off the road each year. In 2022, ROYAL CANIN® established a partnership with
RePack to pilot a sustainable solution for home deliveries.
Mars Snacking China also eliminated 450 tons of plastic use Through this collaboration, pet owners can receive their
through their Extra Light Weighting Project, as well as 580 ROYAL CANIN® Individualis™ order in returnable RePack
tons of virgin plastic by decreasing materials in the DOVE® delivery packaging. Once empty, the packaging can be
canister and DOVE® 43g bars. circled back through the postal system for free to be cleaned
and reused. This process can be repeated up to 20 times.
Our SHEBA® and PERFECT FIT™ Mini Pouches, WHISKAS® and
CATSAN® pet nutrition brands in Europe transformed their
Investing to Close the Loop
packaging to reduce unnecessary materials and improve
recyclability. These initiatives contributed to saving 480 tons
We are actively collaborating to drive true systems change
of plastic per year—equal to the weight of 1.6 million dog
through partnerships with governments, NGOs, suppliers,
food bags. In North America, we are scaling deployment
packaging developers, and industry. To stimulate investment
of single material, ‘recycle-ready’ packaging for large bags
into global recycling systems we are working toward
of PEDIGREE®, NUTRO®, and IAMS® dry pet food – a change
incorporating 30% recycled content on average across
impacting over 74 million bags per year. The new material
our plastic packaging portfolio. And we’re calling for the
is also more efficient, resulting in a significant packaging
improvement of these systems through legislation and
reduction across the portfolio.
industry collaboration, to ensure adequate supply of food-
safe recycled content and to increase consumer access to
recycling services.
Reducing Eliminating
Greenhouse Supply Chain
Gases Deforestation
We have pledged to achieve net zero Mars is accelerating efforts to stop
greenhouse gas emissions across our full Mars deforestation and the conversion of natural
value chain by 2050. As one step toward that ecosystems in cocoa, beef, soy, palm, pulp &
goal, we’ve reduced GHG emissions of our full paper supply chains. We’re on track to have
value chain by 8% since 2015. 100% deforestation- and conversion-free
cocoa, in our supply chain by 2025.
Read More on Page 12 Read More on Page 13
Healthy Planet
Deep Dive
A Climate- Protecting
Smart Future Our Oceans
We’re catalyzing innovation and sustainable Mars is committed to preserving our oceans.
farming practices to build a resilient We’ve joined with WWF and others to address
and thriving cocoa ecosystem, reaching the overexploitation of fisheries. Through
consumers through carbon neutral SHEBA® Hope Grows, Mars and partners have
certifications for select products, and striving planted 825,000 corals, increasing coverage
for water balance in critical factories. from 5% to 70% in 2 years.
Read More on Page 14 Read More on Page 16
Reducing Greenhouse energy needs being met with 100% renewable, electrical Planning for the Future
energy. This is our first factory in the world to stop the direct
Gases use of fossil fuels for thermal heat or electricity and is now In October 2021, we announced our science-based climate
sourcing certified renewable electricity (wind, hydroelectric, target to achieve net zero GHG emissions across our full
and solar). The transition puts Mars Snacking France’s value chain by 2050. That includes all Scope 3 emissions from
Steinbourg factory, which produces all the ice cream for agriculture activities and suppliers from all our brands. In
Europe and the UK, at the forefront of our global initiatives to fact, about 95% of our entire footprint is in Scope 3. As the
achieve net zero emissions across our operations and for our first step in our journey towards Net Zero, we’ve analyzed our
full value chain by 2050 (scopes 1, 2, and 3). GHG emissions and the potential solutions. We’re focusing
our efforts on six big bets that will take us to net zero:
We estimate that more than 65% of our full value chain Renewables, Stopping Deforestation, Recipe Optimization,
carbon footprint comes from agricultural and land use Climate Smart Agriculture, Logistics, and Packaging.
change emissions associated with the ingredients we source
to make products. Therefore, we are working to transform We know that we can’t achieve Net Zero alone, and we
key supply chains by partnering with suppliers, farmers particularly need partnership from our tens of thousands
and others to stop deforestation and produce ingredients of suppliers. Toward that end, we joined forces with 20
more efficiently for a lower carbon footprint. We’re working of our peers, including Pepsi and McCormick, to establish
towards climate-smart agriculture which reduces GHGs, the Supplier Leadership on Climate Transition, a 5-month
regenerates soils and biodiversity, and increases agricultural consulting bootcamp for suppliers to help them:
resilience to climate shocks in key agricultural supply chains
across our business. • Measure their GHG inventory
We’re headed in the right direction to reduce our GHG • Understand what drives their emissions
emissions from our full value chain by 27% by 2025. Rice is a critical raw material for Mars Food & Nutrition, but it • Set targets
also plays an important role in the world’s diet and economic • Develop a game plan
As we accelerate our progress toward our commitment to
prosperity. Rice is a daily staple for 3.5 billion people around
achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions in our full value
the world and provides income to around 19% of the world’s 49% of our raw material carbon footprint is now covered by
chain, Mars has reduced the GHG emissions of its full value population. suppliers that have a Science Based Target, are committed to
chain by 8% as of 2022 compared to our 2015 baseline. This setting Science Based Targets, or are on their way through
is the result of our work to stop deforestation in cocoa and
One of the world’s biggest rice brands, BEN’S ORIGINAL™, is our Supplier Leadership on Climate Transition to set one. We
palm, to reformulate our recipes to be climate smart, and to
continuing to make rice more sustainable and helping people are fully committed to operating our business in a way that’s
reduce the emissions from our operations.
and the planet thrive. Our focus is on making rice farming sustainable for our planet, now and in the future.
more sustainable by reducing the amount of irrigation water,
In our own operations, Mars is committed to reducing
minimizing GHG emissions and increasing yields.
our emissions 42% by 2025. This year, we’ve reduced the
footprint of our direct operations by 29% compared to 2015
In our rice supply chain in Asia, through partnerships with
by improving our operational efficiency, and by installing
NGOs and with our suppliers, we have been working with
more energy efficient equipment and processes and through
farmers to reduce the GHG and water footprint in our rice
our work scaling up renewable electricity around the globe
supply chain and incentivize farmers to apply pioneering
and beginning to transition away from fossil-fuel heat
climate smart practices, including regenerative agriculture
sources. We sourced 25% of energy from renewable sources,
techniques and the standard practices recommended by
on our journey to 100% renewable energy by 2040. 58% of
the Sustainable Rice Platform. SRP offers farmer-friendly tools
electricity sourced was renewable in 2022.
to help drive the transformation of rice supply chains. The
SRP Standard for Sustainable Rice Cultivation, the world’s first
As an example of our efforts, in 2022, the Mars Snacking ice
voluntary sustainability standard for rice, helps farmers boost
cream factory in Steinbourg (Alsace), France completed its
their yields and incomes whilst protecting the environment.
transition away from fossil fuels, with all its production
Combating Deforestation to distribute more than 2 million new non-cocoa trees
to increase important biodiversity and shade and to help
in Our Supply Chain capture carbon.
We’re also tackling forest loss linked to cocoa production
as a critical element of our 2025 Responsible Cocoa
commitments. Our goal is for all cocoa we source to be
traceable and deforestation-free by 2025 – key to reducing
carbon emissions in our supply chain.
Mars Snacking is on track to reach its global goal of 100%
of its cocoa being sourced through its Responsible Cocoa
program and traceable to first point of purchase by 2025. As
of the end of 2022, 68% of the company’s global cocoa was
sourced through the Responsible Cocoa program, with 51%
of its global supply traceable to farm boundaries from first
point of purchase.
While achieving a deforestation-free supply chain for all
the cocoa we source by 2025 will be a key enabler toward
delivering on our ambition to hold flat our land use,
Mars is accelerating efforts to stop deforestation and the
reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our value chain by
conversion of natural ecosystems in cocoa, beef, soy, palm,
27% by 2025 (vs our 2015 baseline), and achieve net zero
pulp & paper supply chains by 2025. As of 2022, we’re making
greenhouse gas emissions across our full value chain by
progress across these supply chains:
2050, to truly achieve our climate ambitions and to support
building resilience for the next generation of farming
• Cocoa: 68% responsibly sourced*
communities, we are leveraging transformative science
• Palm Oil: 100% deforestation & conversion free
and the implementation of climate-smart and regenerative
• Beef: 93% low-risk***
agricultural practices.
• Soy: 98% low-risk***
• Pulp & Paper: 97% recycled or certified**
Mars scored an A in CDP’s 2022 Climate survey and an A-
across the board for forest commodities in CDP’s 2022 Forest
We’ve now polygon-mapped almost 89% of the plots
survey, which recognize leading companies working toward a
(>215,000) from which we source cocoa globally. Knowing
more sustainable future. Outperforming the industry, as part
the precise boundaries helps provide a more accurate picture
of our Beef and Soy Sourcing & Deforestation Action Plans,
of the farm’s location, rather than just one GPS location point.
we achieved A- for beef and soy, putting us amongst the top
This is essential to protect the forests and stop deforestation.
4% of companies in our group for beef and the top 6% for
soy.
In 2022, more than 330,000 hectares in our cocoa supply
chain in Côte D’Ivoire and Ghana were included in a * Mars sources cocoa under its Responsible Cocoa program via the mass balance approach, where all the cocoa we source under this approach corresponds with the cocoa produced by farmers in our
The ongoing work in this area is key to delivering our net zero
Responsible Cocoa programs. Cocoa from farmers in these programs can be physically traced from the farmer to the first point of purchase. For information on the responsible sourcing of cocoa under
deforestation risk assessment—with 376,000 hectares ambitions. The largest share of our emissions is associated our Responsible Cocoa program, please see here.
assessed globally.
with land use change and agricultural practices, linked with
**We are excluding Russian fiber from certification/DCF KPIs due to the geopolitical situation. This fiber was fully compliant with our sourcing policy, however, Russian fiber can no longer be considered
certified while the conflict continues. We are making appropriate adjustments internally and will resume reporting full fiber KPIs, including Russian, next year.
multiple raw materials we buy.
To help avoid the worst effects of climate change and
*** For countries identified at risk for deforestation, we work with partners to run a geospatial risk analysis using the information provided by our suppliers, satellite imagery, and other data sources. The
promote healthier forests, more trees need to be planted. We risk analysis provides us with insights on how exposed our suppliers are to the conversion of natural ecosystems and other potential breaches to our commitments, which in turn allows us to take the
appropriate measures to help address these risks. More can be found on our Policy and Practices webpages.
have worked alongside suppliers and civil society partners
A Climate-Smart Future as an industry trailblazer in the field of cocoa science and Seeking Balance Through Carbon
technology for over four decades.
Neutral Products
We have been conducting research through our diverse
As we accelerate our progress toward our commitment to
cocoa research centers, demonstration farms and pilot
achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions in our full value
projects across Brazil, Ecuador, and Indonesia, as well as at
chain, ROYAL CANIN® will be certified carbon neutral in
our cocoa germplasm site in Davis, California.
2025.
We are incredibly proud of the revolutionary work being
carried out at our UC Davis Mars Greenhouse. We’re fixing
ROYAL CANIN® has committed to become certified carbon
the game in favor of the farmer and our planet through a
neutral by the end of 2025, with its first product range, Kitten
groundbreaking new app that can determine the health of
and Puppy Growth Programs, achieving carbon neutral
the cacao tree at the touch of the button, the development
certification for 2022.
of a new generation of climate-smart cocoa plants that are
more drought-resistant and durable to pests and diseases.
The four action areas ROYAL CANIN® will pursue to be carbon
and a pioneering diagnostic test kit that will help stop the
neutral by 2025 are: transitioning to renewable electricity,
spread of devastating disease. Developed in collaboration
procuring sustainably sourced ingredients, reducing waste
with SwissDeCode, this easy-to-use Virus Rapid Detection
and boosting circularity, and initiating a climate-smart
Kit identifies swollen shoots within just 60 minutes in
business transformation. In addition to the reduction and
asymptomatic cocoa plants. This could be a significant
We are accelerating action toward our commitment to efficiency efforts, carbon neutrality would be achieved and
development in preventing spread and reducing the
achieve net zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions across maintained annually through high-quality removal-based
negative impact caused by replacing diseased trees, which
our full value chain by 2050. We are working together verified carbon credits.
take 7 years to mature.
with suppliers, farm organizations and with farmers, to
support farmers in the transition toward climate smart and Beginning in 2023, all MARS® bars sold in the U.K., Ireland
In operating Mars La Chola in Ecuador, our commercial and
regenerative agriculture, to help achieve our shared goals. and Canada will be certified carbon neutral. Supporting this
scientific demonstration farm, we are exploring and trialing
This is an important area of focus to reduce emissions, action, 100% of cocoa used in our European direct factory
ways to catalyze a shift in the cocoa sector by demonstrating
protect soil health and drive productivity. operations will be verified as Responsibly Sourced Cocoa (
the viability of climate-smart and transformative agricultural
meaning we purchase a volume of responsibly sourced cocoa
models and cross-fertilizing learnings and opportunities
equivalent to the volumes used in our European production),
in collaboration with forward thinking experts such as
Cocoa & Climate
and Mars Snacking has reduced emissions from our direct
Kennemer and Andean Cacao.
operations by 32% since 2015. Any emissions that cannot
Mars is adopting a “climate-smart” agriculture approach,
be eliminated for these Mars bars will be offset by high
Through our venture with Andean Cacao in Latin America,
which means that beyond reducing greenhouse gas (GHG)
quality carbon removal credits based on climate solutions
almost 3,000 hectares (7,400 football fields) of pasture
emissions from land use, our cocoa sustainability programs
like reforestation and land restoration. For chocolate lovers—
land are being regenerated into productive, healthy soil.
are focusing on regenerating and improving soil health, as
who buy more than 220 million MARS® bars a year—their
well as increasing biodiversity and climate resilience.
treat will come with the added benefit of buying from a
business that is working to supercharge their climate efforts,
In partnership with others, leveraging decades of research
transform their supply chain, improve agricultural practices
in soil management, crop production (agronomy) and
and drastically decrease deforestation.
plant science, we are also investing in larger-scale farming
research, operations and strategic planning to help pioneer
Click here to learn more about our certified carbon neutral products.
new methods of cocoa-growing practices that have the
potential to regenerate soil, improve biodiversity and
positively impact communities.
With the ability to make sustained investments in science
A Climate-Smart Future Water Reduction Plan
Across the world, of the ten Mars manufacturing plants
identified as the most in need for urgent water action, half
Role of Carbon Credits in the Carbon
are in Mexico. We’ve introduced a Water Balance Plan with
Neutral Certification for MARS® Bar the following three critical steps:
and ROYAL CANIN®
• Advancing water-stewardship programs to improve water
efficiency
Carbon neutrality is a state in which human activities
• Achieving water circularity by ensuring treated wastewater
result in no net effect on the climate system as defined by
is discharged in a way that reduces stress in watersheds and
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). For a
prevents negative impact on the local water cycle
product, this is achieved by calculating the GHG footprint
• Working collaboratively to balance remaining residual water
through a life cycle assessment and reducing it to zero
use by funding water conservation projects in each site’s
through a combination of reduction/efficiency measures
water catchment
within the operations and using carbon credits to offset the
remaining emissions.
Through our Guadalajara pet food production site, Mars
Mexico has become a partner in “Charco Bendito” a unique
For a product to achieve and maintain carbon neutrality in
collaborative project in Jalisco, Mexico. The project involves
a specific time, the entire footprint of the product for that
nine companies, the local community, and committed
period must be offset with carbon credits.
local partners working collaboratively to address complex
watershed challenges at the basin level, help to provide
Mars purchases removal credits only. Removal credits come
a water-secure future, and collaboratively conserve 355
from projects or activities that absorb or pull carbon from the
hectares. To date, progress has been made with 125 restored
atmosphere. The projects underlying these carbon credits are
hectares to improve the quality and quantity of water in the
validated, verified, and retired according to internationally
region. Key activities include planting native vegetation to
known standards such as the Gold Standard, Verified Carbon
increase groundwater levels and reduce soil loss, improving
Standard, and American Carbon Registry.
water infrastructure, and increasing awareness about the
importance of water conservation.
In 2021, Mars completed the acquisition of KIND®. The KIND®
product portfolio is rich in almonds, which are primarily
sourced from California with a commensurate impact on
our unsustainable water use. KIND® is working to better
understand how these impacts can be addressed particularly
through regenerative agricultural methods.
We have also improved our locational understanding of
water impacts and how they are linked to the average water
stress within the supply sheds of the 5 highest water impact
materials we source (rice, mint, corn, wheat, and almonds).
Whilst these two changes accounted for a 6% increase in
unsustainable water use compared to 2021, overall since 2015,
Mars has reduced unsustainable water use by 18%, primarily
through the implementation of improved agricultural
Protecting & Restoring Building on the success of SHEBA® Hope Grows (visible on
Google Maps), by the end of the decade, we plan to restore
Our Oceans more than 185,000 square meters of reef by planting a
total of 2 million corals globally. That’s roughly 150 Olympic
swimming pools!
Sourcing Sustainably
Mars joined WWF and Finance Earth in a new collaboration
to set up a Fisheries Improvement Fund (FIF), a new concept
to finance Fisheries Improvement Projects, aiming to address
the overexploitation of fisheries. Mars committed to provide
$1 million to the Fishery Improvement Fund to be invested
into FIPs over the next five years.
Through this innovative blue finance mechanism, Mars is
supporting the development of new models that can provide
a consistent source of funding for global fisheries reform,
with a clear aim to positively impact our oceans.
ROYAL CANIN® has identified specific varieties of micro algae
The Mars Assisted Reef Restoration System (MARRS) uses
that can serve as an alternative source of essential omega-3
hexagonal steel structures known as Reef Stars. They are
fatty acids. Some marine algae species naturally produce
coated with sand onto which live coral fragments are tied.
omega-3 acids using energy from sunlight in the oceans. In
The Reef Stars are installed in a stable web on top of coral
the process, they capture carbon dioxide and release oxygen.
rubble fields that show no signs of recovery, which, over
By replicating this process on land through fermentation,
time, are transformed back into flourishing reefs.
ROYAL CANIN® can now source these products using
sustainable technology.
In over thirty restoration sites across the globe, alongside our
partners, 825,000 corals have been planted. Coral cover
has increased from less than 5% to 70% within two years,
enabling a 300% increase in fish.
The average size of fish on SHEBA® Hope Grows has
increased by 175%, and there has been a 10% rise in the
number of fish species since 2019.
The Big Build
In July 2023, Mars partnered with the government, national
parks, academia, NGOs, the Tourism & Diving Industry, and
other businesses from across the whole of Indonesia for “The
Big Build”—a unique collaborative effort to plant 30,000
Scan to Watch Video
coral fragments using 2,000 Reef Stars over just four days
at SHEBA® Hope Grows in Spermonde Archipelago, one of
Increasing Advancing
Income Respect
for Human
We believe everyone working within
our extended supply chains should earn
sufficient income to maintain a decent Rights
standard of living.
Mars is committed to understanding and
taking action to address salient human rights
issues—the critical issues that form the basis
of our global human rights priorities.
Read More on Page 18 Read More on Page 19
Thriving People
Deep Dive
Unlocking Power of
Opportunities Partnerships
for Women
Through our work with the Livelihoods Fund
For Family Farming (L3F), we’ve committed
more than $6.5 million in initiatives that
In the world Mars strives to create for
include empowering women in coconut,
tomorrow, women are reaching their Full
vanilla and shea-sourcing communities.
Potential. That’s why Mars is acting now to
advance gender equality in its workplaces, in
the marketplace, and in communities where it
sources raw materials.
Read More on Page 21 Read More on Page 22
Supporting Cocoa Farmers The Farmer Income Lab (FIL), a “think-do” tank founded by
Mars, reviewed more than 1,500 studies detailing common
on a Path to a Sustainable interventions to increase farmer income. FIL found only
three of them raised incomes by more than 50% and could
Living Income be sustained over time bundling interventions, customizing
approaches, and partnering to drive impact at scale. Mars is
applying these findings and other insights from the Lab in a
new test-and-learn approach that combines best-practice
interventions to unlock the entrepreneurship of farmers,
diversify income streams, and improve productivity to
enhance farm resilience and accelerate incomes. The aim is to
scale successful measures more widely and put 15,000 cocoa
farmers in Ghana, Côte d’Ivoire and Indonesia on a path to
sustainable living income.
Mars, Fairtrade, and ECOOKIM embarked on a holistic
development journey to achieve and maintain a living income
for cocoa growing communities. Drawing on more than 10
years of collaboration between the project partners, the
Livelihood Ecosystem Advancement Program (LEAP) program
intends to address past market failures and permanently
improve outcomes for farmers. This unique initiative
integrates measures that promote systemic change. The goal
is to establish the fastest, most efficient, most viable route to
Cocoa is key to our global chocolate brands and to the
a living income for all cocoa farmers.
livelihood of an estimated 350,000 cocoa farmers in our
supply chain.
LEAP aims to help more than 70% of the 5000 participating
farmers in Cote d’Ivoire achieve a living income by 2030.
Most cocoa today is grown on small family farms with little
This would translate to over 100% income growth for most
access to electricity, clean water, reliable roads or quality
participating households and would help transform the rural
schools. Compounding these challenges are negative effects
economy to sustain incomes and economic growth beyond
of climate change and persistent market failures, such as:
the program.
• Disconnection from formal financial systems,
And through ACTIVE, a partnership with USAID and I4DI,
• Underdeveloped cooperative management practices,
we are projected to increase the income of 9,000 farmers in
• Unsustainable prices, and
Indonesia by up to 15% over four years and reduce by 20%
• Lack of alternative income sources to offset market
the number of participating farmers living below the living
volatility
income benchmark.
These obstacles can leave cocoa farmers in poverty, unable
to invest in or grow their businesses due to factors beyond
their control. Despite past industry efforts to improve farmer
livelihoods, the unfortunate reality is that smallholder farmer
poverty has not been sufficiently improved.
Advancing Respect for By 2025, 100% will be covered. increase our visibility and improve oversight; activated our
Next Generation Supplier Program with our Tier 1 suppliers;
Human Rights & Preventing We continued to progress “Supplier Advance” programs initiated multiyear collaborations designed to improve
across supplier factories to reach more than 19,500 people. efforts to monitor, address, and prevent human rights risks
Hazardous Child Labor These programs are intended to focus on issues such as for local and international fishing vessels; and engaged in
responsible recruitment, health and safety, gender equality more targeted advocacy on responsible recruitment with the
and addressing workplace discrimination. Examples of Seafood Taskforce.
worker-reported impacts from select completed Supplier
Advance programs include 23% increase in workers feeling We completed our four-year collaboration with USAID on
respected at work in India and 26% increase in workers a Connectivity@Sea Technology and Ethical Recruitment to
feeling valued and recognized for their work in Philippines. test and learn from digital solutions to strengthen worker
voices while at sea and enhance transparency in recruitment
And we reached approximately 12,000 people through our processes. This work has informed government focus on
“Supplier Advance” coaching program at two Tier 1 supplier expansion of the Connectivity@Sea technology across all
sites in Thailand—with a focus on health and safety, fair coastal provinces of Thailand.
treatment at work and improved working conditions.
fair treatment at work and improved working conditions. We are encouraged by the effectiveness of the fishing
industry support centers we have supported since 2019. The
centers connected more than 13,500 people—primarily
migrant workers—to legal services, education and medical
support since implementation began. Together with Stella
Advancing Respect for Human Rights Maris, we’ve expanded our partnership to provide grievance
support services to fishery workers on hundreds of fishing
We focus on advancing respect for human rights in our vessels at two major landing ports in Thailand.
extended supply chains in close collaboration with our
suppliers, their business partners, the industry, government,
Palm Oil
civil society organizations, and communities. We prioritize
work on supply chains in which the most severe human rights
In 2022, we deepened our collaboration with suppliers to
risks may be present, including, cocoa, fish, palm oil, mint
support their efforts to advance respect for human rights.
and sugar.
In Malaysia, we are working on a multiyear collaboration
with a palm oil supplier and Verité Southeast Asia focused
In 2022, more than 152,000 cocoa farmers received human
on remediation of worker-paid recruitment fees and new
rights sensitivity training. Embedding child labor monitoring
Photo by Luke Duggleby for USAID Thailand Counter Trafficking in Persons recruitment practices moving forward, including:
and remediation systems into the cocoa supply chain is key to
understanding the risks to people working within it.
Fish Designing and implementing an improved ethical
recruitment model, including direct recruitment;
Our first priority is to ensure our suppliers have robust
While the proportion of fish we use for pet food accounts for Enhanced grievance mechanisms and communication
child and forced labor monitoring and remediation systems
a small share of the global fish market, as a purpose-driven processes to understand effectiveness of this model; and
in place that are designed to identify, prevent and help
business, we believe we can make an important contribution Identifying and addressing recruitment fee risks.
to remediate cases of child labor and forced labor as
to improving environmental and social impacts in fish supply
appropriate. We’ve significantly expanded child labor
chains. Partnerships with third-party experts and industry groups
monitoring and remediation systems (CLMRS) across our
supported our efforts in palm supply chains in 2022. We
cocoa supply chain in West Africa. In total, 65% of our supply
Mars Petcare sources fish in Thailand, and we began supported Verité to develop a palm oil producer toolkit
from Ghana, Côte d’ Ivoire, Cameroon and Nigeria were
activating our Thai Fish Human Rights Action Plan in 2016. aimed at helping palm oil mills and plantations address
covered by CLMRS, reaching 135,000 cocoa farming families.
We have continued to evolve our work in Thailand. In 2022, worker rights issues, manage labor risks and improve working
Advancing Respect for Tier 1 Suppliers
Human Rights & Preventing
In 2019, we launched our Next Generation Supplier
program – an enhanced approach with a focus on not
Hazardous Child Labor
only understanding human rights risks, but also deeper
engagement with our suppliers to address those risks. We
have continued to progress Supplier Advance programs
Cocoa
across supplier factories in eight countries, designed to reach
more than 19,500 people . These programs have focused on
Access to quality education and development opportunities
issues such as forced labor risks; health and safety; gender
for children are critical components of driving better long-
equality; and addressing workplace discrimination.
term futures for children in cocoa-growing communities.
Investing in education can have a positive circular effect:
Positive changes in the factory environment and in workplace
educated children can earn higher incomes as adults and
communication are key outcomes of Supplier Advance that
contribute more to the development of their own children,
have tangible effects for workers. One supplier in Thailand
households and communities.
saw a 16% improvement in workers reporting having a good
relationship with their supervisor at the end of the program.
In 2020, we made a $3.3 million investment to support the
More workers reported being listened to by their managers
Jacobs Foundation’s creation of two public-private funding
and that their personal safety was a priority for their
facilities aimed at promoting quality education and early
management.
childhood development and nutrition, in line with the Côte
d’Ivoire’s government strategic objectives in the fight against
child labor. Led by the Ivorian Government and supported
by the Jacobs Foundation, UBS Optimus Foundation, and
16 prominent cocoa and chocolate companies, the Child
Learning and Education Facility was officially launched
in June 2022. We continue to support early childhood
development programs and vocational training programs
through suppliers.
In 2022, we invested $500,000 in Lead For Ghana (LFG),
a leadership development and network organization,
partnering with like-minded organizations such as ECOM,
Touton, and Ofi. Together, we aim to create enhanced
educational opportunities for children in Ghana while
simultaneously addressing gender inequality and child labor.
Through a two-year leadership development fellowship,
LFG engages and empowers Ghana’s most talented recent
university graduates and young professionals to teach
Science, Mathematics, Information Technology, and English
in demanding educational settings.
Improving the Lives The CARE and Mars Women for Change program works with
women and their families in cocoa-growing communities to
of Women Across the Globe improve livelihoods so that they can thrive. The program aims
to increase gender equity in households and communities
while supporting increased savings, improved skills, income
growth and diversification, improved school enrollment rates,
and increased nutrition. The program also works to shift
social norms and reduce gender-based violence by engaging
men to encourage joint saving and decision-making. This
innovative approach uses a smart mix of solutions to reinforce
women’s role in the cocoa supply chain. Scan to Watch Video
Women and girls’ empowerment is a dynamic and
transformative process of change, which requires addressing
gender inequalities and disempowerment across multiple
dimensions. To address these challenges, we partnered
with the Royal Tropical Institute (KIT) to conduct qualitative
research on empathy and viability to understand and explain
behaviors, experiences, and attitudes in relation to the
inequality and disempowerment that women face in their
daily lives in cocoa growing communities in Côte d’Ivoire,
Ghana, and Indonesia. It was concluded that the longer-
In our workplaces, women hold 48% of our management
term, often overlooked and neglected “mainstreaming” work
roles. We define a gender-balanced team as having 40-60%
of changing mindsets and social norms is essential if we
of any one gender. We know we have more work to do but
want to make meaningful progress in lowering barriers to
are pleased to have improved representation of women in
equality, reducing poverty, and unlocking the full potential
senior leadership roles across our general management and
of women and girls. Mars is taking action by embedding a
global leadership population.
gender transformative lens into its cocoa policies, strategies,
partnerships and programs linked to human rights, the
We remain committed to equal pay for equal work for all
environment, and farmer income.
Associates. We activated more than 30 Associate Resource
Groups (ARGs) focused on women as part of a growing
And in the marketplace, we are engaging with consumers
network of 90+ ARGs and launched our Women
by building on our #HereToBeHeard global listening study.
and Allies global ARG in early 2023. These groups help create
We launched a series of conversations, bringing together
an environment where all women at Mars can thrive and
individuals to share their experiences and suggestions to
reach their full potential.
help create meaningful change.
In our cocoa supply chain in collaboration with CARE,
#HereToBeHeard Conversations: Leadership | Mars,
the Mars Women for Change Village Savings and Loans
Incorporated
Association (VLSA) program reached over 77,000 members in
Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana, with more than 60,000 members in
#HereToBeHeard Conversations: Parenthood | Mars,
communities linked to Mars’ supply chain. Over 75% of VSLA
Incorporated
members are women and benefitting from more than $7.4
million in total savings the program has generated.
Power of Partnerships The Livelihoods-Vanilla project is addressing this issue Rice Partnerships
by training farmers on sustainable practices to increase
productivity and quality, creating farmer-owned
Through a partnership with the International Finance
cooperatives, promoting conservation and biodiversity, and
Cooperation (IFC), we have supported 21 agricultural
identifying alternative economic opportunities. Launched in
cooperatives with 1250 farmers in Cambodia. The partnership
2017, this project aims to reach 3,000 farmers and greatly
enabled farmers to expand their land and improve efficiency,
improve income within 10 years. As of 2022, we’ve made
as well as assisting farmers in cultivating additional varieties
significant progress and have reached 2,700 farmers on key
of rice which meet market quality and quantity requirements.
interventions to improve their incomes.
This approach not only supports farmers, but also empowers
them to make informed decisions about the future of their
• We’re training farmers – both men and women - on
business.
better agricultural practices
• We’re supporting women in leadership – with almost
In our Thai rice supply chain, Mars Food & Nutrition has
one-third of leadership seats in farmers associations
funded the Sustainable Agriculture and Rice Initiative
now held by women
(SARI) program since 2018, implemented by the German
• We’re also supporting farmer-owned cooperatives with
development organization GIZ. Through this program,
both growing and curing
1450 farmers have been taught sustainable rice production
• Together with our partners, we have a long-term, ten-
techniques aligned with the SRP (Sustainable Rice Platform)
year commitment to buy the vanilla from these farmers
standard. The program emphasizes climate-smart practices
which provides stability and predictability
Vanilla Partnerships
that enhance efficiency in fertilizer and water usage,
that is important.
discourages straw burning, promotes organic fertilizer
L3F are impact investment funds created by Mars, utilization, advises on land preparation and leveling, and
As a result, yields have risen by an average of 50%,
Danone, Firmenich, and Veolia to fight climate change by encourages farmers to maintain a comprehensive record
production capacity has increased, and the vanilla crop is
safeguarding the livelihoods of the people who grow the book to track expenses and income.
better quality. Because of the project, 100% of the value of
food the world depends on. Through this collaboration,
the cured vanilla now goes back to the farmers and the
we are investing in large-scale projects that empower The implementation of these practices has allowed farmers
community.
smallholder farmers and rural communities, restore to increase their yields, which have led to higher income, and
ecosystems, contribute to climate action, and create value an opportunity for more investments into their businesses.
across agricultural supply chains. According to the SARI project results, increased income is
not the only result. In general, farmers in the project have
In Ghana, we initiated a pilot in late 2022, aiming to been able to achieve 30% of water reduction in rice farming
explore and tackle the social, economic, and environmental and nearly 16% of yield increases. More than 70% of the rice
challenges experienced by cocoa smallholders. The primary farmers in the program are women.
objective of this project is to determine the key factors that
can effectively assist cocoa smallholder farmers in revitalizing
their farms and enhancing their income in a sustainable
manner.
Our vanilla program is focused in Madagascar, where 80%
of global vanilla is produced. Vanilla farmers are trapped in a
cycle of poverty: they lack efficient practices to grow high-
quality vanilla and they don’t have the time or resources to
sell cured vanilla. As a result, farmers get a low price for poor
quality products.
Responsible Caring for
Marketing People
and Pets
Marketing determines how our brands and
products show up in the world. Our Mars
Marketing Code is one of the most ambitious
We created AI-driven methods to quickly and
in the food industry. In 2022, we made huge
accurately grade cancer and predictkidney
strides toward achieving gender parity in our
disease risk. Mars Veterinary Health is
marketing materials.
investing in programs that enhance veterinary
professionals’ health and wellbeing.
Read More on Page 24 Read More on Page 25
Nourishing
Wellbeing
Deep Dive
Ensuring Providing
Food Safety Healthy Food
A focus on food safety is critical to protecting We’re passionate about making our products
people, pets & the planet. We believe if food as healthy as they are tasty. We use the strict
isn’t safe for consumption, it’s not food. We’re World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines
developing solutions and making science and for calories, added sugar, sodium and fats as
technology advances to ensure all our food is set out in our Mars Food & Nutrition Criteria.
safe.
Read More on Page 26 Read More on Page 27
Striving for Gender Parity of speaking time.
• At a brand level, we had notable year-on-year • Encouraging healthy lifestyles and responsible consumption
improvements in the presence of female characters in • No child-appealing promotions, influencers, licensed
SNICKERS®, WHISKAS®, TWIX® and M&M’S® ads. Ben’s characters, advergames, or purchasing incentives, and strict
Original® also improved parity of its marketing, showing governance of our brand characters
more male characters in cooking and homemaking roles. • Following our advertising guidelines for positive behaviors
Mars aims to create a safe media experience for people when
Marketing Responsibly
they interact with our brands. Therefore, Mars is one of the
founding partners of the Global Alliance for Responsible
Marketing is a powerful tool that can drive positive behavior
Media (GARM), a cross-industry initiative that brings together
and conversations about issues that matter. It’s critical
advertisers, media agencies, media platforms, ad tech
to put guardrails around marketing practices to protect
companies, and industry groups to remove harmful content
vulnerable audiences and to ensure that marketing is honest,
from ad-supported digital and social media. Mars has taken
accountable and trustworthy.
a leadership role within the Alliance to establish shared
universal safety standards and metrics, create common
That’s why our Mars Marketing Code (MMC) is one of the
brand safety tools across the industry, and drive mutual
most ambitious in the food industry. We believe that with a
accountability and independent verification.
strong commitment to responsible marketing, we’re driving
positive change. Mars is considered to be the industry
You can learn more about GARM’s achievements in its three-
In 2018, Mars partnered with the Geena Davis Institute (GDI) leader in our governance and reporting. Good governance
year progress report here: GARM: 3 Years of Progress - World
on Gender in the Media. This ongoing partnership has is about delivering accurate and consistent measurement of
Federation of Advertisers.
generated reporting to help us measure representation and performance and doing so in a transparent manner.
address bias in our marketing.
We are proud to report a 99.5% placement commitment and
Since then, we have made positive progress in increasing a 99.3% overall content commitment result, based on 2021
representation— specifically with female characters in our audit data. This surpasses our compliance goals.
advertising, who made up 45% of characters in 2022. This
is an increase of 11% points since Mars first started auditing Our approach focuses on:
gender representation in 2018.
1. Protecting children as a vulnerable audience
The report also shows: 2. Using the power of marketing for good, and
3. Being responsive to consumer expectation
• Mars advertisements in 2021 showed no gender
differences for portrayals of work. This is a significant In service of these priorities, our placement commitments
improvement compared to 2018, when men were nearly include:
twice as likely as women to be shown working and more male
than female characters were depicted with an occupation • No marketing targeted to children under 13 years, regardless
(26% vs 11%, respectively). of the nutritional profile of a product, and using a 25%
• Female characters are now as likely as male characters to audience threshold
be depicted in leadership positions. In 2018, 22% of male • No marketing, vending or sports sponsorships in primary
characters were shown as leaders, compared with 17% of schools
female characters. • No data collection for children under 16 years old
• Female characters have the same amount of screen time as
male characters, though there remains progress to be made We also have firm content commitments applicable to
on speaking time, with female characters accounting for 43% all forms of marketing (including packaging and in-store
Caring for People & Pets AI-Driven Testing Supporting Vulnerable Pets
One in four dogs and one in five cats will develop cancer We continue to work to address pet homelessness issues
during their lifetime, so moving quickly from diagnosis to the around the world, with a wide range of programs, including
best treatment plan is critical. Our Antech™ team receives responsible pet owner and breeder education, expanded
around 700 biopsies for diagnosis every day, and manually access to veterinary care, shelter support, branded
counting mitotic figures—a measure of how fast cancer cells partnerships and donations. Through working with partners
are dividing—is time consuming and open to subjectivity. and our Foundations we supported 3,834,170 vulnerable
By leveraging PyTorch, an open source machine learning pets in 2022 through feeding programs, adoption, access to
framework, the Next Generation Technologies team built essential care and other critical interventions. This included
a groundbreaking algorithm that identifies mitotic figures providing free or low cost preventative care to 1.4 million pets
enabling more efficient and reliable cancer grading in pets. in need across the U.S. and Puerto Rico, including wellness
This saves pathologists’ time so they can focus on the right checks, flea and tick preventatives, spay and neutering, and
treatment for pets. essential vaccines.
In collaboration with Process Integration and Predictive
Supporting Our Veterinary
Analytics (PIPA) and the Royal Veterinary College, our Antech
Health Associates
Diagnostics colleagues developed an AI-driven diagnostic
test that can accurately predict a cat’s chances of developing
Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) up to two years before any
The MARS PETCARE BIOBANK™ Throughout 2022, Mars Veterinary Health focused on
clinical signs. So far, more than 200,000 cats have been
supporting all aspects of Associates’ health and wellbeing,
found to be at risk of developing this condition. CKD is
with an emphasis on mental health. We not only offered
We are on a mission to improve the lives of pets through
also common in dogs. Because they live shorter lives than
resources like MVH4You.com and our ASK Suicide Prevention
science, all in support of our Purpose: A BETTER WORLD FOR
cats with CKD, early detection is vital. In partnership with
training—completed by more than 20,000 people to date
PETS™.
PIPA, our scientists and veterinary teams built a computer and available to all Mars Associates and the entire veterinary
algorithm that can predict with 99% accuracy which dogs profession for free—but also expanded our network of in-
The MARS PETCARE BIOBANK™ aims to be the largest,
would not go on to develop CKD in the next 3.5 years. house health and wellbeing professionals, including social
most comprehensive real-world study of its kind. We are
workers. Further, Mars Veterinary Health invested more than
aiming to recruit 20,000 pets (10,000 dogs and 10,000
$6 million during 2022 to enable and enhance Associate
cats) over 10 years. During this time, we will study biological
benefits and programs, including personalized mental health
samples, pet health, and genetic and behavior data to help
solutions like Spring Health and Lyra; Associate Assistance
us identify early signs of potential disease. We will use this
through Beacon; and meditation services like Headspace.
data to uncover new ways to support healthy development
and aging, disease prediction and prevention, individualized
nutrition, and health monitoring. By enrolling their pets in the
study, pet owners can help enable new scientific discoveries
to improve pet health for generations to come.
What sets the MARS PETCARE BIOBANK™ apart from other
pet biobanks is that we welcome dogs and cats of all breeds
Scan to Watch Video
and breed makeups. Existing pet biobanks often study only
certain breeds or diseases, which is why our study has the
potential to transform pet care for all dogs and cats in the
future.
For example, Mars is using MARVEL in the food safety arena.
Ensuring Food Safety risk management capability through training to support Aflatoxins are a poisonous but little-known natural product
mycotoxin risk mitigation at vulnerable points along the food made by certain fungi. Specialists from the University of
supply chain. Cambridge and Mars Digital Technologies are using MARVEL
to predict the likelihood of aflatoxin in maize by analyzing
3. Food Integrity data on things such as humidity levels, temperature and
We investigate cutting-edge tools, methods and capabilities rainfall—all of which affect whether aflatoxins can grow.
to help mitigate food integrity challenges across the global By having access to this data, Mars can make informed
food supply chain, helping to protect raw food materials and predictions about aflatoxin contamination, ensuring that the
finished products. raw materials that we buy are safe for everyone.
The Mars Advanced Research Virtual Lindau Nobel Laureate Meetings
Environment Lab
Nowhere is our support of scientific collaboration more
evident than our involvement at the annual Lindau Nobel
Since 2015, MARI and the University of Tennessee’s National
Laureate Meetings. Each year, this unique scientific forum
Institute for Computational Sciences (NICS) have worked
brings together Nobel Laureates and more than 500 of the
together to advance our capabilities in computational
top young researchers from all over the world to Germany.
modeling, bioinformatics and artificial intelligence. A key
product of this collaboration is the creation of the Mars
At the 71st Lindau Nobel Laureate meeting, Mars hosted
Advanced Research Virtual Environment Lab (MARVEL).
Food safety is of paramount importance at Mars. As a global discussions with Nobel Prize winners, including topics such as
food manufacturer, we believe we have a responsibility to using chemistry, physics and medicine to unlock meaningful
MARVEL provides Mars with the computational
act. First, to ensure that the food we produce is safe and high insights in health and nutrition and opportunities for
infrastructure required to carry out next-generation data
quality to help protect people, pets, and the planet. Second, scientific collaboration. These timely conversations outlined
analytics processes and gives us access to scientists with
to raise the bar in food safety by identifying and tackling risks the opportunities and challenges in nutrition research and
expertise in computational methods. All this knowledge and
that impact society at large. spotlight the multidisciplinary collaboration needed to
data translates into a better understanding of the science
elevate the field.
behind Mars products and services. A better understanding
An example of our unique approach is the Mars Global Food
leads to insights. Insights lead to innovations in service of our
Safety Center (GFSC)—a world-leading research and training
consumers.
hub, opened in 2015 and dedicated to multi-sector, multi-
disciplinary collaboration and capability building in food
safety. At the GFSC, we are currently focused on three critical
areas of food safety:
1. Microbial Risk Management
We are investigating innovative technologies
andmethodologies with the potential to transform the
management of microbial risk from a reactive to predictive
(and ultimately preventative) approach. This can include next
generation sequencing, whole genome sequencing and
metagenomics.
Scan to Watch Video
2.Mycotoxin Risk Management
We work with strategic partners to generate knowledge and
new insights and develop practical solutions that can help
predict and tackle mycotoxins. We help build mycotoxin
Providing Healthy Food We’ve also reduced sodium across our portfolio by 3.3%,
making strong progress towards our 2025 commitment of
reducing by 5%.
In line with World Health Organization (WHO) guidance,
Mars, Incorporated’s commitment to help limit intake of
added sugars to less than 10% of total calorie intake, builds
on the steps we have taken over time to help consumers
achieve their nutritional goals.
With the ongoing challenges of food insecurity, we continue
to work with our food bank partners around the world. We
made a global commitment to donate 25 million meals to
ensure that underserved communities around the world have
access to nutritious meals. We have already exceeded this
commitment and have donated more than 33 million globally,
and are continuing to build strategic partnerships with local
organizations to help us get food to people who need it the
most.
At Mars Food & Nutrition, we are dedicated to delivering on
But we don’t just provide healthy food. We’re also researching
our purpose: Better Food Today. A Better World Tomorrow.
ways that food and its specific components, including
bioactive compounds can improve health through rigorous
We believe a better world tomorrow is one where more
scientific research.
people have access to healthy meals; more people cook and
sit down together to enjoy shared dinner times; and more
Mars is rigorously investigating the long-term effects of
food can be produced with less environmental impact. We’re
cocoa flavanol intake on cardiovascular disease risk and
focused on building an innovative, purpose-driven business
cardiovascular death at a scale and duration that has never
of tomorrow, enabling delicious, healthier eating to be part
before been attempted. To do so, our researchers designed
of consumers’ daily lives and making choices that help us
and undertook the COcoa Supplement and Multivitamin
achieve near-term results without compromising on the
Outcomes Study (COSMOS), a randomized, double-blind,
world we want tomorrow.
placebo-controlled trial of more than 21,000 men and
women over 5 years. It has become the largest clinical dietary
We are incredibly proud that Mars Food & Nutrition
intervention trial investigating the impact of flavanols on
delivered more than 4.7 billion healthy meals in 2022—and
health.
more than 9 billion healthy meals since 2021. This progress
was driven by a combination of reformulation, optimization
The results showed that the participants in the cocoa
of the portfolio and product innovation in line with the Mars
flavanol supplement group had a 39% reduction in
Food Nutrition Criteria (MFNC).
cardiovascular deaths and a 15% reduction in total
cardiovascular events.
This includes:
The first results from COSMOS have been published in The
• 1.7 billion servings of vegetables
American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. We’re excited by
• 32% increase in fiber servings, and
the promise shown for flavanols in reducing cardiovascular
• 33 million meals to food bank partners across the globe
disease risk, a major health challenge globally.
Eliminating Embracing
Unnecessary Paper
Packaging Packaging
Our highest priority is to eliminate all We’re transitioning part of our portfolio to
problematic and unnecessary packaging paper. Recyclable paper-based wrappers for
materials from our portfolio, to help prevent MARS®, SNICKERS® and MILKY WAY® are now
any of our packaging from contaminating the available across Australia and New Zealand,
recycling stream, and to reduce our use of removing over 360 tons of plastic from our
virgin plastic by 25%. value chain.
Read More on Page 29 Read More on Page 30
Transforming
Packaging
Deep Dive
Developing Investing in
Reusable Recycling
Options
We’re redesigning more than 12,000
packaging types to be recyclable where
infrastructure exists. We’re incorporating
We’re exploring innovative reuse models
30% recycled content, to create demand for
that eliminate waste altogether, with a goal
recycled materials & to encourage investment
to launch at least 10 new programs that test
into global recycling systems.
reusable packaging in markets. We’re already
well underway with nine programs deployed
so far.
Read More on Page 31 Read More on Page 32
Eliminating Unnecessary 2022 Success Stories
Packaging Mars Snacking China eliminated 450 tons of virgin plastic trays from large eggs, accounting for a 270-ton plastic
through their EXTRA© Light Weighting Project, plus a further reduction, a significant amount of the seasonal range’s plastic
580 tons of plastic by decreasing materials in the DOVE® output. This was followed by 86 tons of plastic removed from
canister and DOVE® 43g bars. the XL Eggs and Giant Eggs portfolio in 2021—resulting in a
total of 504 tons of packaging and plastic reduced over the
Throughout 2022, Mars Pet Nutrition brands in Europe past three years.
transformed the SHEBA® and PERFECT FIT™ Mini Pouches,
replacing plastic flow-wraps with high performing and
widely recyclable paper sleeves. Across select markets in
Europe, WHISKAS® dry food plastic bags have been replaced
with carton boxes. And in France, CATSAN® cat litter brand
has removed unnecessary layers of plastic in its secondary
packaging. Together these initiatives contributed to saving a
total of 480 tons of plastic, equal to the weight of 1.6 million
dog food bags.
In North America, we are scaling deployment of single
material packaging designed for advanced recycling systems
available in some countries for large bags of PEDIGREE®,
NUTRO® and IAMS® dry pet food—a change impacting over
74 million bags per year. The new material is also more
efficient, resulting in a significant packaging reduction
across the portfolio. We are advocating for the expansion of
advanced recycling so that these packs can be recycled in
more markets in the future.
Now select “Standard” and “More to Share” sharing pouches
of some of Mars Snacking U.K.’s favorites—including M&M’S®,
GALAXY®, COUNTERS®, MINSTRELS®, REVELS®, MALTESERS®,
BUTTONS®, SKITTLES® and STARBURST®—are narrower in the
U.K. and Ireland. This will reduce plastic used by 45 tons,
equivalent to around 647,000 square yards a year, an area of
Where possible we aim to remove material such as plastic over 90 football fields. The new packs will have an average
from our packaging without replacing it with another of 10% plastic reduction per pack compared to the current
packaging material such as paper. This can be achieved in 2020 range. This also means that we can fit more packs into
several ways, such as through “light-weighting,” where we the boxes we ship, increasing our efficiency and taking the
strip away material from the package, making it thinner and equivalent of 90 truckloads of boxes off the road each year.
lighter. We are also exploring new materials that can replace
the use of some plastics. Mars Snacking U.K. has also made a 142-ton reduction in
plastic packaging across its Easter Eggs for 2022, meaning
that 97% of our Easter Egg portfolio in the U.K. is now
plastic-free. Over the past few years, we’ve been on a
significant packaging reduction journey to make Easter
Embracing Paper
Packaging
We’ve made the switch to paper packaging for our chocolate
bars in Australia. Recyclable paper-based wrappers for
MARS®, SNICKERS® and MILKY WAY® products are now
available across Australia.
Our ongoing investment in extensive R&D trials and locally
driven innovation has allowed us to be agile and create
solutions that have a positive impact on our environment,
meet our stringent quality and food safety standards, and
remain convenient for our consumers to recycle via curbside
recycling.
From April 2023, MARS BAR®, SNICKERS® and MILKY WAY®
bars in Australia will be packaged in recyclable paper-based
wrappers. This switch is expected to eliminate more than
360 tons of plastic from our value chain, enough to stretch
from Melbourne to London and back.
The project was launched to show how well paper performs
as a material in production and assembly in the factory,
during transport and on the shelf. The lessons learned are
now being fed into new packaging designs for the Mars
chocolate bar portfolio.
This launch marks a significant milestone in just one of the
many projects bringing Mars closer to our goal to make all of
our packaging reusable, recyclable and compostable and to
reduce our use of virgin plastic by 25%.
Developing Reusable Our pet nutrition brands also partnered with Carrefour to
test bulk sales as part of a broader industry collaboration
and Refillable Packaging strategy within the scope of France’s National Pact on
Plastic Packaging, where stakeholders are jointly working
on innovative solutions to drive a circular economy. In
2022, we began offering PERFECT FIT™ dry cat food,
CATISFACTIONS™, and WHISKAS® Care & Treats in bulk at
Carrefour’s Montesson hypermarket in France. Consumers
are provided with reusable or single-use containers for
consecutive pet food refills, with easy access to product
information via the help of QR codes available on refill
dispensers. In addition to enabling reduced packaging waste,
bulk sales provide additional benefits to shoppers, including
the opportunity to purchase the exact quantity needed.
Also on packaging reuse, in 2022, ROYAL CANIN® established
a partnership with RePack to pilot a sustainable solution for
home deliveries. Through this collaboration, pet owners
can receive their ROYAL CANIN® Individualis™ order in a
returnable RePack delivery packaging. Once empty, the
packaging can be circled back through the postal system
for free to be cleaned and reused up to 20 times.
Another way to eliminate unnecessary packaging waste is to
make a package reusable, meaning you can hold onto the
pack and refill it as many times as you choose, or return it so
that it can be washed, resealed and purchased again.
In collaboration with BESTORE, the leading brand in China’s
snack industry, our reusable M&M’S® packaging had a 24%
refill rate across 17 outlets in five cities. We estimate the
refills will save about seven tons of plastic every year.
Also in China, we launched refillable TaTa® bubblegum and
Pimpom® lollipops packaging at participating storefronts.
These reusable solutions are also helping our retail partners
reach their own eco-friendly goals.
In France, Mars Snacking launched their first-ever bulk
delivery system with supermarket giant Carrefour. A
sweet bonus: our bulk dispensers are in the confectionery
aisle, right alongside traditional packaged treats, letting
shoppers mix and match their favorite M&M’S® colors, just
like in boutiques and our M&M’S® World stores. By 2030, all
Carrefour stores larger than 400 square meters will dedicate
20% of their space to bulk sales, which is a great example of
why we’re participating with early test-and-learns like these
Innovating with Recyclable bags with a prepaid postage stamp and simple three-step Mars and Berry Global are now putting PCR into plastic
instructions on how to return it for proper recycling. Once containers used for M&M’S®, SKITTLES® and STARBURST®. In
Packaging & Incorporating returned, each individual bag and the wrappers placed inside 2022, we launched 15% PCR in our large-format jars and have
are fully recycled for future use. With 600 million pounds of lightened the packaging as well. The bars are produced from
Recycled Content candy purchased in the United States each season, that’s a lot a single-pellet, food-grade RPET derived from mechanical
of wrappers to recycle! recycling technologies. Available in three sizes, the jars will
eliminate about 300 tons of virgin plastic per year.
Mars Petcare has launched a new pouch for its SHEBA®
wet cat food that incorporates, on average, 30% recycled
polypropylene from advanced recycling technology. The first
such structure for wet pet food, the SHEBA® pouch is not only
food safe, but can also withstand the retort process where
the product is sterilized at a high temperature. The pouch is
made through an advanced recycling process where mixed
plastic waste is recycled through pyrolysis into an oil that can
be used as the feedstock to produce a range of plastics with
the same characteristics and functionality as virgin plastic.
The Chinese branch of Mars Snacking has launched its first
package made entirely from post-consumer recycled PET
(rPET) for local chocolate brand Cui Xiang Mi (CXM). The new
packaging will save 36 tons of virgin plastic each year. After
launching the packaging for CXM, Mars Snacking China plans
As part of our commitment to a circular economy and to
to provide the rPET lid for brands such as SNICKERS® and
Incorporating Recycled Content
ensure that our packaging can be transformed into recycled
M&M’S® in 2023. Through this, we’ll save an additional 300
content, we are redesigning much of our portfolio to be
tons of virgin plastics in a year.
recyclable where recycling infrastructure exists. We’re then In a recent collaboration with packaging supplier Berry
purchasing recycled material and incorporating it back into Global, we launched new club jars for M&M’S®, STARBURST®
Also for the first time, packaging for KIND® snack bars in the
some of our packaging, thereby closing the loop. and SKITTLES®. The new jars contain 15% recycled plastic,
U.K. and Ireland will incorporate recycled content made from
replacing about 300 tons of virgin plastic per year.
advanced recycling. The new KIND® snack bar packaging
Improving the Recyclability incorporates recycled content made from advanced
The easy-grip square jars are produced at Berry’s
recycling, meaning it contains less virgin plastic to previous
of Our Packaging
manufacturing facility, using a single-pellet, food-grade resin
products.
to ensure a clean, consistent packaging material sourced
from mechanical recycling. In addition to including recycled
Mars Snacking France released the first-ever mono-material We’ve partnered with Olyns, a San Jose, California-based
materials, the jar itself is also widely recyclable in teh United
M&M’S® Choco pouch, made of only one type of plastic resin startup that offers reverse vending machine technologies to
States.
(polyethylene), which is designed to be recyclable where launch the Sweet Rewards Challenge as a way to encourage
advanced recycling facilities exist. consumers to recycle rigid plastic candy containers. Through
Available in three sizes, the new jars offer the same look and
the challenge, consumers in Northern California can recycle
feel as previous jars. The two larger sizes are 10 grams lighter
In October, we worked with leading digital waste and rigid plastic candy and gum containers to participating Olyns
per jar, saving 374 metric tons of carbon dioxide (CO2)
recycling solutions provider Rubicon Technologies, Inc. to reverse vending machines (RVM) in the San Francisco Bay
every year, which is equivalent to:
offer specially designed recyclable trick-or-treating bags as Area. Consumers can deposit their hard plastic candy and
an expansion of Rubicon’s existing Trick or Trash™ campaign. gum containers to Olyns Cubes at participating locations and
• 42,084 gallons of gasoline consumed
The collaboration gave Halloween lovers a simple, fun and play a game to earn badges and win up to $100.
• 45,494,350 smartphones charged
free way to tackle wrapper waste by providing trick-or-treat
The world we want tomorrow starts
with how we do business today.