NIKE, Inc.
Impact Report
RATION FOR THE NEXT GE
A LETTER FROM
A fencer facing odds others call impossible? Prove what’s possible
when you begin with belief.
A footballer writing history on the world stage? Shine a light for the
OUR ATHLETES
next generation.
In our whole careers, in our whole lives, we haven’t waited on change.
We set out to create it. And when it comes to the biggest challenges of
our time, that is the spirit we want to bring.
Looking back, it all started with love.
Whether it’s advancing equity for women and girls, fighting climate
Love for smashing aces on the court, drilling crosses on the pitch, parrying
change or uplifting our communities, we can’t just wait. We can’t just
strikes on the piste, running circles around the boys. Love for the two-a-
hope. We all have a part to play in creating a better world, and that’s
days, three-a-days. Love for the big moments and bright lights, but also
why it means so much to share this journey with NIKE, and with all
the solo sessions, the hard days, the grind.
of you.
That passion is what drives you to break records and win championships.
The truth is, it hasn’t been easy. Moving the world forward doesn’t
It’s also what leads you to realize: this journey is bigger than you.
happen overnight. As women and as athletes, we’ve pushed to be seen
Because let’s be real – as women and as athletes, so much of this wasn’t
and heard. We’ve raised our voices to help drive that change, and NIKE,
built for us. Not the institution of sport, and not the system and structure
you’ve been there to listen and evolve with us.
of society. As athletes and as women, our only playbook has been to be the
More than anything, what our journey has shown is that real innovation
change we want to see.
and lasting impact happens when we create a new playbook together
A Black girl from Compton who doesn’t fit the sport? Don’t just break the
– one built on engaging more deeply, championing women more
mold. Change the sport – on your way to changing everything.
meaningfully and expanding opportunity for generations to come.
A champion becoming the world’s fastest mother? Nurture what’s next –
So, to the changemakers out there: No matter where your journey takes
and redefine the meaning of legacy.
you, our wish for you is to hold on to why you started. We see you, we
hear you, we believe in the fire you have inside you.
A soccer player claiming her space with every play? Build a platform to
fight for everyone to win.
We can’t wait to see the future you will create.
A trailblazer on the court who inspires a nation? Show every girl
Love,
watching: no dream is out of reach.
Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce Ada Hegerberg Li Na Megan Rapinoe Bebe Vio Serena Williams
Letter from John
Introduction
If you’re reading this letter, it’s because you The way we see it, sport has always been
Our purpose is to
understand the power of sport. one of society’s most powerful catalysts
for change. And over the years, what we’ve
You know that sport changes the way we learned has moved NIKE forward, too.
move the world see ourselves, and the way we see the world.
Sport connects us with a shared language Our inspiration comes in many forms, and
– the joy of a run, the thrill of a game, the from many voices. The teammates who help
power of movement, the calm of a deep shape a more equal and inclusive culture.
breath. Sport builds community, opens The coaches and community leaders who
forward
minds, and changes hearts. step up to expand access to youth sport.
through
The innovators who help protect our planet,
To me, that’s what NIKE’s potential for and the future of sport. The athletes who
impact is all about. NIKE’s mission is to stand up, speak out, and push us to grow.
bring inspiration and innovation to every
the power of sport.
athlete in the world. Our purpose is to Above all, NIKE’s journey is a work in
move the world forward through the power progress. We continue to listen, learn,
of sport. And in the face of society’s most and evolve. We grow not just to serve
pressing challenges, our belief is that sport today’s athletes, but also for the next
can bring us together to change the world generation – the next Shelly-Ann, Ada,
for the better. Li Na, Megan, Bebe, and Serena. The future
changemakers. And just like the athletes
More than 50 years ago, the passage we serve, we’ll keep pushing to realize
of Title IX in the United States opened our full potential.
doors of opportunity for women and girls
through sport. Within the same week, a Sport moves us forward. It always has,
small startup in Oregon would introduce and it always will.
its running shoes at the U.S. Olympic Track
and Field Trials. And from the beginning,
NIKE would define the word “athlete”
through the lens of equality: “If you have
a body, you are an athlete.”
John Donahoe
President and CEO
NIKE, Inc.
John Donahoe
President and CEO, NIKE, Inc.
Letter from Michelle
Introduction
When I think about how NIKE leads with Today, the Board’s Corporate Responsibility,
NIKE has long challenged
purpose, two words that come to mind are Sustainability & Governance Committee
boldness and humility. NIKE has never been oversees NIKE’s corporate governance,
shy about setting bold, ambitious goals to as well as the risks and opportunities
create a better world through sport. Equally, associated with NIKE’s three Purpose
itself to share its journey NIKE has long challenged itself to share its pillars – People, Planet, and Play. As a
journey with humility and transparency. committee, our responsibilities include
monitoring NIKE’s progress against its
More than twenty years ago, the NIKE, five-year Purpose targets and long-term
humility and
Inc. Board of Directors first established a sustainability goals; providing oversight
with
committee tasked with overseeing matters of significant Purpose-related strategies,
related to environmental and sustainability activities, policies, investments and
initiatives, labor practices, diversity and programs; and reviewing and providing
transparency.
equal opportunity, and other issues related guidance to management regarding the
to corporate responsibility. Since then, development of this annual Impact Report.
NIKE’s commitment to corporate purpose
has only deepened and grown – building Purpose is embedded in NIKE’s DNA, and
on the continuing commitment to strong continues to guide NIKE’s growth. On behalf
governance, sustainable growth and of the NIKE, Inc. Board, we are pleased to
responsible leadership. share this FY22 NIKE Impact Report.
Michelle Peluso
Chair, Corporate Responsibility,
Sustainability & Governance Committee
NIKE, Inc. Board of Directors
Michelle Peluso,
Chair, Corporate Responsibility,
Sustainability & Governance Committee
NIKE, Inc. Board of Directors
About this Report
Introduction
This yearʼs report Our Targets About This Report
In 2005, NIKE published its first set of This year’s report represents the second
five-year Purpose targets, and we have year of performance toward our 2025
stayed committed to this practice ever since. targets. For each target, our report provides
Today, we have a set of 29 ambitious context on our goal and approach, details
represents the
corporate targets for the period from FY20 the initiatives underway to reach the target
to FY25, focused on our Purpose across and updates on the results of our efforts.
People, Planet and Play. These targets This includes reflecting on what areas of
represent our multi-year commitment to work have proven challenging, and sharing
second year of
drive impact, meet stakeholder expectations what plans we intend to pursue to address
and align with NIKE’s business priorities. those areas in the future.
When we set our 2025 targets, we did so Throughout the report, we have included
per formance with the ambition that they be bold but spotlights on the employees and athletes
attainable and measurable. Approaching the helping drive this work around the world,
work with an athlete’s mindset, our targets recognizing the people and stories behind
are meant to push us to the edges of what our progress.
our
we can achieve – and in doing so, progress
toward
our enterprise meaningfully. Simply put, if The final two sections of the report provide
we are easily crossing every finish line, then details on reporting methodology, Purpose
we need a race that is more challenging. governance, report assurance and data
2025 targets
tables to provide additional transparency.
.
We work toward progress through strategic
planning, piloting innovations, implementing We know that success will not be linear,
solutions at scale and sharing best but accountability in this space means
practices with our partners. Our approach sharing our achievements and learning
distinguishes us because we: from our challenges openly – we are proud
to do so in our FY22 Impact Report.
− Connect executive compensation
to progress toward our 2025 targets
− Leverage annual milestones and
rigorous tracking to improve
performance management
− Extend accountability of targets deeper
into our value chain than ever before,
specifically in the areas of carbon,
waste, labor and supplier diversity
− Align with the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals and other frameworks
Impact Summary
Introduction Your favorite college track star shares
that she can train at any time of day
without worries of excessive heat.
64%
There’s an inclusive, welcoming
place to play just around the corner. Planet Since 2020, we’ve reduced Scope 1
and 2 emissions by 64% through
375K
multiple avenues including 93%
renewable electricity.
An inspiring female coach
encourages a young trans
athlete to join the team. They
feel supported and included.
Play We have engaged 375k+ girls in local 17 K
play and sport programs this year. MOVING THE
WORLD FORWARD
Play In FY22, we supported 17k
We’re well on our way to the world we want to see.
coaches with our training tools.
It’s a place where women and girls have a voice,
inspire as athletes and serve as proud protectors of
their planet. It’s a world where everyone in our next
generation sees a brighter future.
A world where waste is transformed
into something new.
A colleague’s promotion confirms
your own path is just as possible as
97%
hers. Her mentorship and support
of you has made all the difference.
51%
Planet 97% of our waste is diverted
from landfill, with 72% of our
waste recycled.
People
51% of our global corporate workforce
are women.
Table of Contents
Introduction
INTRODUCTION PEOPLE PLAY
CORPORATE
2 A Letter From Our Athletes 136 Active Kids
3 Letter From Our CEO 21 Representation & Hiring 143 Inclusive Community
4 Letter From Our Board Committee 41 Pay & Benefits 147 Employee Engagement
5 About This Report 51 I nclusive Culture & Engagement 153 Community Investment
6 Impact Summary 60 Education & Professional Development
OUR REPORTING
63 Business Diversity & Inclusion
2025 TARGETS
APPROACH
SUPPLIERS
10 FY22 Performance Summary 65 Health & Safety
156 Reporting Methodology
70 Gender Equity
157 Issue Prioritization
74 Worker Engagement
161 Governance
162 Risk Management
FOUNDATIONAL EXPECTATIONS
80 Code of Conduct
APPENDIX
PLANET
164 Data Tables
195 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index
90 Carbon
215 Assurance Report
111 Waste
216 NIKE, Inc. Management Assertion
123 Water
127 Chemistry
Safe Harbor Statement
Introduction
Note
The information in this report and NIKE, different perspective and, in certain cases,
Inc.’s corporate responsibility/sustainability in more detail than that required to be
reporting and website, inclusive of charts, included in our filings with the SEC. Climate-
graphs and discussion, and all other related science, data and methodologies
information presented, may contain are rapidly evolving; those underlying our
forward-looking statements, estimates, climate-related analysis and strategy remain
or projections based on expectations as subject to evolution over time. For example,
of the original date of those materials. we believe the methodology of carbon
Those statements, estimates and accounting will continue to improve over
projections are not guarantees of future time, especially as it relates to Scope 3 GHG
results or performance and are subject emissions. As a result of improvements to
to certain known and unknown risks and the quality and completeness of our data
uncertainties that are difficult to predict, and updates to our methodology over
are often beyond our control and could time, we may include information in future
cause actual results to differ materially. disclosures that differ from those contained
These risks and uncertainties are detailed in this report. Unless otherwise specified,
in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities all information (including forward-looking
and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), information) speaks only as of the date
including our Annual Report on Form on which it is made, and we disclaim any
10-K. Presented information may also obligation to update or delete any outdated
discuss previously non-public financial information contained in this report or in our
and statistical information. Our approach website materials. All content is the property
to the disclosures included in this report of NIKE, Inc. This report contains third-party
and NIKE, Inc.’s corporate responsibility/ data. We have not, and do not intend to,
sustainability reporting and website differs independently verify third-party data. Actual
from our approach to the disclosures we results and outcomes may differ from those
include in our mandatory regulatory reports, expressed in or implied in this report due to,
including our filings with the SEC. This among other factors, any applicable legal
report and our corporate responsibility/ requirements and/or industry standards,
sustainability reporting and website are in providing such data.
intended to provide information from a
Sebastian
Coe Building
NIKE World
Headquarters,
Beaverton, OR.
01
2025
TA RGETS
10 FY22 Performance
Summary
People
Target Progression Favorable Target met
Increase/Decrease
Unfavorable
Increase/Decrease
PEOPLE
Corporate
REPRESENTATION & HIRING FY22 change FY22 change
Metric FY201 FY21 FY22 vs FY21 vs Baseline FY25 target
50% representation of women in global corporate workforce % women in global workforce 50.2% 50.4% 51.1% +0.6 p.p.2 +0.9 p.p.2 50%
and 45% in leadership positions
% women in leadership positions 39.3% 43.0% 44.1% +1.1 p.p. +4.8 p.p. 45%
30% representation of U.S. racial and ethnic minorities3 % U.S. racial and ethnic minorities 26.2% 30.5%4 34.5% +4.0 p.p. +8.3 p.p. 30%
at Director level and above at Director level and above
35% representation of U.S. racial and ethnic minorities3 in our % U.S. racial and ethnic minorities 31.5% 34.5%4 38.8% +4.3 p.p. +7.3 p.p. 35%
U.S. corporate workforce5 in U.S. corporate workforce
$10 million investment in Historically Black Colleges and $ invested (cumulative) — $0.45M $1.75M $1.3M $1.75M $10M
Universities (HBCUs) and Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs)
Enhance opportunities and marketing of open roles Qualitative — — — — — —
for Firstline athletes6 to compete for corporate roles
People
Target Progression Favorable Target met
Increase/Decrease
Unfavorable
Increase/Decrease
Corporate
PAY & BENEFITS FY22 change FY22 change
Metric FY20 FY21 FY22 vs FY21 vs Baseline FY25 target
100% pay equity across all employee levels on an annual basis $ earned by men/women; $ earned 100% 100% 100% — — 100%
by white/U.S. racial and ethnic minorities
Provide competitive and equitable benefits for Qualitative — — — — — —
all employees
INCLUSIVE CULTURE & ENGAGEMENT
— 80% 79% -1.0 p.p. — Top Quartile
Top quartile of benchmarked companies for both Average percent favorability engagement9
FY22: 83%
engagement7 and inclusion8
+2.0 p.p. Top Quartile
Average percent favorability inclusion9 — 75% 77% —
FY22: 82%
Continue to focus on improving access to athletes* of Qualitative — — — — — —
all abilities for our brand, our experiences, our product,
our facilities and our company
EDUCATION & PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
100% of Vice Presidents complete and be credentialed % VPs completing training — 0% 45%10 +45 p.p. — 100%
on Inclusive Leadership education
2x investments focused on professional development for $ invested in professional development $76K $85K $685K $600K $609K 2x
racial and ethnic minorities in the U.S. and women globally
1.1x 9.0x
BUSINESS DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
$1 billion cumulative spend on diverse suppliers11 $ spent on diverse suppliers (cumulative) — $282M12 $777M +$495M $777M $1B
People
Target Progression Favorable Target met
Increase/Decrease
Unfavorable
Increase/Decrease
Supplier13
HEALTH & SAFETY FY22 change FY22 change
Metric FY20 FY21 FY22 vs FY21 vs Baseline FY25 target
100% of strategic suppliers14 are building healthy % suppliers with Level 3 health 22% 27% 46% +19 p.p. +24 p.p. 100%
and safe workplaces15 and safety maturity
GENDER EQUITY
Metric
— 0% 2% +2 p.p. +2 p.p. 100%
100% of strategic suppliers14 have gender % suppliers achieving mature
equitable workplaces16 gender-equitable capability
WORKER ENGAGEMENT
Metric
— 0% 21% +21 p.p. +21 p.p. 100%
100% of strategic suppliers14 are measuring Strategic suppliers measuring
and improving worker engagement17 and improving engagement
Foundational Expectations18
CODE OF CONDUCT19
Metric
94% 85% 60% -25 p.p. -34 p.p. 100%
100% of facilities in our extended supply chain % compliance with
meet NIKE’s foundational labor, health, safety Foundational Expectations
and environmental standards
66% 79% 97% +18 p.p. +31 p.p. 100%
% of facilities measured for compliance
of anticipated total scope
Planet
Target Progression Favorable Target met
Increase/Decrease
Unfavorable
Increase/Decrease
PL A NE T
FY22
CARBON FY22 change change
Metric FY20 FY21 FY22 vs FY21 vs Baseline FY25 target
213,152 122,882 75,76822 –38% –64% -70%
70% absolute reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Owned or operated facility GHG
in owned or operated facilities through 100% renewable emissions (metric tons CO e)
2
electricity and fleet electrification20, 21
48% 78% 93%22 +15 p.p. +45 p.p.23 100%
% renewable electricity
3,650,162 2,864,812 3,086,965 +8% -15% 0%
0% emissions change in manufacturing and transportation24 Manufacturing and transportation
GHG emissions (metric tons CO e) change
2
96,020 123,367 182,611 48% 90% 500,000
0.5M metric tons emissions reduction through 50% Materials GHG emissions reduced
environmentally preferred materials (EPM)25 (metric tons CO e)
2
31% 32% 39% +7 p.p. +8 p.p. 50%
% EPM
Planet
Target Progression Favorable Target met
Increase/Decrease
Unfavorable
Increase/Decrease
WASTE FY22 change FY22 change
Metric FY20 FY21 FY22 vs FY21 vs Baseline FY25 target
10% waste reduction per unit in manufacturing, Waste/unit (g/unit) 292.38 274.58 269.40 -2% -8% -10%
distribution centers (DCs) and headquarters (HQs)26
100% waste diverted; 80% recycled in manufacturing, % waste diverted from landfill 96% 97% 97% 0% +1% 100%
packaging, DCs and HQs27 and incineration
% waste recycled 68% 70% 72% +2 p.p. +4 p.p. 80%
10x finished product waste (FPW) refurbished, recycled FPW collected and recycled 1.28M 2.44M 3.11M +0.66M +1.83M 10x
or donated28 or donated (units)
1.9x 2.4x
WATER
25% reduction in freshwater usage per kg textile dyeing Freshwater use/kg textile dyeing 84.36 78.68 76.91 -2% -9% -25%
and finishing29 and finishing (L/kg)
13B liters water restored in our extended cotton Water restored (L) 0.65B 2.06B 3.72B +1.66B +3.07B 13B
supply chain30
CHEMISTRY
Adopt clean chemistry alternatives for our 10 priority # priority chemistries with clean 0 0 0 — — 10
chemistries across our supply chain chemistry alternative
Play
Target Progression Favorable Target met
Increase/Decrease
Unfavorable
Increase/Decrease
PL AY
ACTIVE KIDS FY22 change FY22 change
Metric FY20 FY21 FY22 vs FY21 vs baseline FY25 target
Drive sustained community impact by getting kids moving % girl participation — 52%31 50% -2 p.p. — 50%
in our key cities and sourcing backyards with
50% girl participation
INCLUSIVE COMMUNITY
Invest $125 million to support organizations working to level $ invested (cumulative) — $36.6M $69.6M $33M $69.6M $125M
the playing field and addressing racial inequality
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Increase the number of employees engaged in their % of employees engaged 37% 35% 35% — — 35%
communities to a minimum of 35% in their communities
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
Invest 2% of prior-year, pre-tax income to drive positive % of prior-year, pre-tax 1.9% 3.4% 2.2% -1.2 p.p. +0.3 p.p. 2%
impact in communities income invested
Footnotes
Target Progression
1 FY20 was the target year for our FY20 targets (FY15– 10 Due to terminating our relationship with our didn’t exist when the target period started. While none suppliers representing approximately 80% of total
20) and is the baseline year for the majority of our credentialing vendor, we would like to note that of the strategic suppliers reached a mature level of footwear upper materials and apparel textiles
2025 targets. The continual expansion of our Purpose moving forward we will be using an internal gender equity in FY21, more than 95% of suppliers production; and about 95% of both inbound
targets’ depth and breadth is a key element of our credentialing program and that our target progression met our FY21 milestone to deploy and validate the and outbound transportation.
strategy. As such, we introduced new areas included in FY22 should be viewed as a standalone year. SDT, develop an action plan and implement actions.
25 Footwear EPMs: recycled polyester, recycled rubber,
in target scope with the 2025 targets. As a result,
11 A diverse supplier is one that must be majority (at 17 Criteria for measuring and improving engagement leather that reduces NIKE’s enterprise carbon impact;
in many cases, FY20 values disclosed in the FY20
least 51%) owned, operated, managed and controlled must be met for the factory to count toward the currently includes synthetic leather and NIKE’s non-
NIKE Impact Report differ from those provided in this
by a diverse* person or persons who are either U.S. target key performance indicator of measuring leather substitute for leather, Flyleather. Apparel EPMs:
report, reflecting the more inclusive measurement
citizens or lawful permanent residents. *A “diverse and improving. While most suppliers have started recycled polyester, organic cotton, recycled cotton,
scope in our most current targets. For the nine Planet
person” may be defined as a minority**, woman, to measure worker voice in their facilities, none third-party certified cotton.
targets and the three Supply Chain targets, the target
disabled, LGBTQ and/or veteran. **Minority is defined have advanced to the next phase, which involves
year (when target value achievement is measured) 26 Scope includes packaging applied in finished goods
as African American, Hispanic, Asian American, responding to and improving worker experience.
is considered the full FY25. For the Foundational manufacturing; suppliers representing approximately
Native American, Pacific Islander or other types of We will begin reporting on progress next year as
Expectations target and the People targets, FY25 Q4 95% of total footwear production; Air MI; DCs; and
ethnic minorities here in the United States. suppliers begin to enter this next phase. The baseline
constitutes the final measurement period. HQ locations. Apparel manufacturing waste not
for this target was created in FY21 and this information
12 The basis for the revised spend data is based on yet included in reporting scope as data sources for
2 p.p. = percentage points. wasn’t measured in FY20.
three driving factors: We validated existing suppliers target tracking are under establishment.
3 U.S. racial and ethnic minorities as defined by EEO1 that qualified as diverse, but were not previously 18 Targets focused across the NIKE supply chain –
27 Scope includes suppliers representing approximately
categories including American Indian or Alaskan Native, designated. This included researching the suppliers’ including Tier 1 finished goods and Tier 2 materials
95% of total footwear production and about 60%
Asian, Black or African American, Hispanic/Latino, certification, that the certification had been accurately suppliers, their workers and facilities, as well as NIKE
of apparel; Air MI; DCs; and HQ locations. Diverted:
Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander. recorded in our systems, and that the resulting spend employees at owned-and-operated facilities (Air MI
Includes waste to energy incineration, recycled waste
data was reflected correctly. We have increased and DCs).
4 Updated from FY21 Report based on changes in how and composted waste. Recycled: Includes recycled
our outreach to Tier 1 suppliers (prime contractors)
employees self identify. 19 The Nike Code of Conduct and Code Leadership and composted waste.
to report their Tier 2 (subcontractor) spend. We
Standards lay out the minimum standards we expect
5 U.S. corporate workforce includes all U.S.-based increased our survey scope from 16 to 200 suppliers 28 FPW consists of unsellable inventory in NIKE’s
each supplier facility to meet. Our scope for this target
full-time employees who do not work in our retail (representing the majority of total indirect spend). marketplace (product deemed as unsellable through
includes Tier 1 finished good suppliers, Tier 2 material
stores, distribution centers (DCs) or Air Manufacturing This resulted in suppliers retroactively reporting normal sales channels including aged inventory,
suppliers representing approximately 90% of our
Innovation (Air MI). their historic Tier 2 spend, which was not previously samples, defectives, consumer returns) and end-
footwear uppers and apparel materials, focus DCs
asked for by NIKE. We have been able to significantly of-life product owned by the consumer. We use
6 Firstline athletes include full-time employees who improve the frequency and maturity of our data quality representing at least 80% of volume, and our NIKE an apportioned methodology when accounting
work in our retail stores, DCs or Air MI. (validation) reviews. owned or operated manufacturing facilities (Air MI). for units recycled, to address the constraint that
7 This index measures the emotional commitment our 13 Targets focused on Tier 1 finished goods and Tier 2 20 Target represents NIKE’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions a full unit cannot always be recycled. To avoid
teammates have for NIKE, influenced by their day-to- materials suppliers within our extended supply chain footprint, including facilities and HQ fleet vehicles, overclaiming benefits from recycling, we only count
day experiences. and their workers. and corporate jets. the portion of the unit that is recycled in our target
performance numbers.
8 This index measures the extent that our teammates 21 FY15 is the baseline for NIKE’s RE100 target, which
14 Strategic suppliers: strategic finished goods suppliers;
feel that NIKE supports a culture of diversity and suppliers representing approximately 80% of total was 14% renewable energy. 29 Scope includes suppliers representing approximately
inclusion, as well as their personal perceptions around footwear and apparel production. 22 This metric is part of Management’s Assertion 80% of total footwear upper materials and apparel
feeling valued and included. textiles production.
on select sustainability metrics, which PwC has
15 Healthy and safe workplaces: Supplier must reach
9 Due to change in vendor, we are no longer able Level 3 safety and health maturity on Culture of Safety performed limited assurance over for the period from 30 Restored through a portfolio of projects that support
to measure our percentile metric. We are able to Maturity Assessment. June 1, 2021, to May 31, 2022, as indicated in the long-term resilience for water-stressed ecosystems
measure our percent favorability, and assess whether Assurance Report. and communities within our extended cotton
we score within the top quartile. See target narrative 16 In order to reach mature gender equity, suppliers must supply chain.
23 Renewable electricity use was 14% when the baseline
for further detail. achieve an overall Gender Equity Self-Diagnostic Tool
for this target was created. 31 FY21 percentage has been updated for consistency
(SDT) score of 71% and perform at a certain threshold
with FY22 data which is inclusive of girls ages 0
in each of the SDT’s 10 domains. The baseline for this 24 Scope includes suppliers representing approximately
through 17.
target was created in FY21 as the tools to measure 80% of total footwear and apparel production;
02 PEOPLE
CORPORATE
21 Representation & Hiring
41 Pay & Benefits
51 Inclusive Culture & Engagement
60 Education & Professional Development
63 Business Diversity & Inclusion
SUPPLIERS
65 Health & Safety
70 Gender Equity
74 Worker Engagement
FOUNDATIONAL EXPECTATIONS
80 Code of Conduct
People Introduction
Being seen, heard and included is much more
than a numbers game. But by measuring our
progress and charting representation across
we keep
gender, race, ethnicity and identity,
ourselves accountable
.
In doing so, we’re moving closer to achieving
every team, supplier, partner
the equity that
and organization
we work with deserves.
Future Address
People
AI piDckeDd uRp EmyS fiSrstI NracGque t at the age of five. I was a kid in Compton,
a place that was most definitely not known for churning out world-
TclaHssE te nFniUs atThleUteRs. MEy sister, Venus, and I knew that the courts we
practiced on weren’t opened with us in mind. But we made them
with
our own. As my game grew and my career advanced, I understood
Serena Williams
that so many elements of the game — from the rules to the gear —
weren’t designed for players like me. Whether it was the fit, the form,
the function or the style, I was not represented and I had to make it
my own. Today my voice reaches far beyond sport. So I’d be remiss if
I didn’t fiercely advocate for the next generation of female players and
young Black and Brown creators. Often overlooked in design fields, the
creative contributions we have yet to make are what’s needed to make
our world brighter, bolder and better. Whether on the court or in the
studio, seeing more players and designers like me and like you, who
are not afraid to bring our best game will make all the difference. It is
People Future Address “I’ve always believed the world isn’t one
color. At Serena Williams Design Crew,
we come from different backgrounds and
think differently.”
I picked up my first racquet at the age of five.
I was a kid in Compton, a place that was most
definitely not known for churning out world-class
tennis athletes.
My sister, Venus, and I knew that the courts we
practiced on weren’t opened with us in mind. But
we made them our own. As my game grew and
my career advanced, I understood that so many
elements of the game – from the rules to the gear
– weren’t designed for players like me. Whether it
was the fit, the form, the function or the style, I was
not represented and I had to make it my own.
(SWDC). Each year we choose 10 up-and-
Today my voice reaches far beyond sport. So I’d coming designers of diverse backgrounds and
be remiss if I didn’t fiercely advocate for the next perspectives, with the mission of seeding a new
generation of female players and young Black and era in design and expanding sport for a new
Brown creators. Often overlooked in design fields, generation. Much like me, the SWDC apprentices
the creative contributions we have yet to make are have a bold and progressive vision. I want to
what’s needed to make our world brighter, bolder empower them to not follow trends, but instead
and better. Whether on the court or in the studio, create them.
seeing more players and designers like me and like
you, who are not afraid to bring our best game will I’ve always believed the world isn’t one color.
make all the difference. It is what will dare people, What some say does not match, ends up coming
like you and my young daughter, to dream even together beautifully. At SWDC, we represent
bigger, and maybe even achieve a major award different backgrounds and think differently.
– or a grand slam – or two. When we bring all that diversity together, just
imagine the amazing things that we’ll create…
To create such a future, I partnered with NIKE in
2019 to build the Serena Williams Design Crew I can see it and I hope you can see it, too.
With gratitude,
Serena
Representation & Hiring
People: Corporate
% of women in the global workforce % of women in leadership positions
FY21 FY22 FY21 FY22
50.4 51.1 43.0 44.1
% % % %
Quantitative Target
50% representation of women
in global corporate workforce
and 45% in leadership positions
Our mission hasn’t changed. NIKE wants
People Profile
to be a leader in building a diverse, inclusive
team and culture, and this target is important
in our work to create the equitable playing
field of the future.
Gender equity in the workplace is part of
our goal of creating an environment that
enables self-identified women to reach their
Jasmine Jordan
2025 Target
full potential and reflect the female athletes
50
and the communities where we live, work Basketball Field Rep,
2025 Target
and play.
Women’s Sports
% 45
Marketing
Our FY21 representation of women in
%
our global corporate workforce (50.4%)
increased by 0.7 percentage points to
“ When we set out to build the largest
51.1% in FY22, allowing us to surpass our
WNBA roster in Jordan Brand history
target. And, we went from 43% of women in
– it wasn’t about setting records, it was
leadership positions to 44.1% in FY22,
about setting the standard. We wanted
0.9 percentage points shy of our 45%
to show off the depth and diversity of
2025 target.
play across the women’s game, and to
create a legacy that invites in a new
We continued to expand our diversity
generation onto the court with us.”
recruitment, talent development and
retention practices, adopting a data-
driven approach to guide our actions
and decisions.
Representation & Hiring
People
We also continued to build deeper and experiences specific to gender identity,
stronger relationships with 10 strategic race and/or ethnicity, and sexual orientation.
women-only external partners, including The purpose of the FLDP is to help
Girls in Tech, Grace Hopper Celebration, accelerate the movement, representation
Latinas in Tech, Lesbians Who Tech, Women and retention of talent.
Back to Work and the Society of Women
Engineers, to help drive representation,
retention and development opportunities. ADVANCING
In addition to helping NIKE source WOMEN EXECUTIVES
candidates from a variety of backgrounds,
these partnerships offer unique benefits, (AWE) MANAGER
supporting career development through
professional memberships, leadership and ACCELERATOR
technical trainings, networking and team
building. NIKE’s diverse group of employees
participated in 50 Diversity, Equity and A cohort-based series of professional
Inclusion (DEI) conferences in FY22, of which development courses for Manager to Senior
12 focused on professional women and their Director level women, ADL supports career
needs. For example: advancement through highly-interactive,
learning-focused sessions. Participants gain
access to best practices and new tools that
FOCUSED LEADERSHIP help them be more effective as business
leaders, and a wide network of like-minded
DEVELOPMENT peers. The courses are facilitator-led and
include opportunities for networking and
PROGRAM (FLDP) individualized support.
An opt-in program in partnership with
world-class, expert leadership development
firms, the purpose of the FLDP is to help
accelerate the movement, representation
and retention of talent. Many of the offerings
include leadership development programs
focused on workplace and leadership
Representation & Hiring
People
LEADERSHIP from Cohort 1 and 2 alumni, executives,
People Profile
their managers, peers and the NikeUNITED
EDUCATION FOR Networks. In FY22, we added new
investments in professional development
ASIAN PACIFICS opportunities through stronger internal and
external partnerships. Based on the positive
(LEAP) response from over 40 WIN participants and
their managers, we are expanding the WIN
program in FY23 to also include former U.S.
Kelly Zhou
A retreat in Hawaii for Asian Americans and track & field athletes.
Pacific Islander (AAPI) women, LEAP is a Retail District Director
first-of-kind leadership development and
of Zhejiang Province;
wellness program for those who identify as VALARI
Women of Nike &
women in the AAPI community.
Friends Employee
Internally, we have continued to work to In FY21, we launched Valari, a nine-month
Resource Group
accelerate the career trajectory of women fellowship that engaged the talents of former
Volunteer
in the workplace by investing in signature caregivers who have already paved a way
programs to increase a sense of belonging, in the technology industry and are eager to
community and professional development. get back in the game. The program provided
“ I am very proud to inspire personal
For example: curated learning experiences for managers
growth and career advancement with
and fellows to accelerate their leadership
my women athlete peers by encouraging
development, including career coaching,
store athletes to participate in
WOMEN IN NIKE executive sponsors and NikeUNITED
discussions on women’s topics and share
Networks support, as well as mentorship.
their experiences at community events.”
(WIN) In FY22, all Valari fellows were offered and
accepted full-time Director-level positions
in the technology organization, landing
Building on the success of the previous on teams that are critical to our overall
cohorts, in FY22 we expanded this Consumer Direct Acceleration offense,
24-month program designed for retired including Enterprise Data and Analytics,
and retiring Women’s National Basketball and Technical Product Management.
Association (WNBA) players. The 16 fellows
in Cohort 3 joined the WIN community and
received immediate support and mentorship
LEAP Women’s
Retreat
Representation & Hiring
People
LEADERSHIP WOMEN OF NIKE
Our Women of NIKE
DEVELOPMENT AND FRIENDS
PROGRAMS NETWORK (WON)
and Friends Network
We identify and nurture high-potential Since its establishment in 2010, WON
individuals to help develop strong talent for the continues to play a significant role in
future. In FY22, we revamped the curriculum of supporting gender equity in the workplace.
has a mission to
two signature programs focused on Directors Its mission is to empower, inspire and invest
and Senior Directors, and we continued to in women at NIKE, which it activates through
offer mentorship and on-the-job training. three pillars of focus: community, career
empower, inspire
We also provided development opportunities development and connection. In FY22, WON
with external partners. expanded its reach from 35 to 48 countries,
hosting a variety of events and reaching
At the executive level, we regularly conduct more than 10,000 members globally.
and invest talent assessment evaluations that inform the
in women types of training opportunities offered to our In FY23, WON will work to elevate the
most senior leaders, including women in senior needs of the women of NIKE through
leadership positions. We leverage a variety community building and career development
of programs, including executive coaching, opportunities, all while continuing to listen
360-degree reviews that better inform and learn, taking a data-driven approach,
at NIKE.
individual development plans, and quarterly conducting surveys, and sharing insights
executive development meetings. with the business and its members.
Representation & Hiring
People
% U.S. racial and ethnic FY21 FY22
minorities at Director level 30.5 34.5
% %
and above
Quantitative Target
30% representation of U.S. racial and ethnic
minorities at Director level and above
At NIKE, we are committed to attracting and Our DEI strategy has focused on increasing
fostering racial and ethnic minority leaders representation through key partnerships
as we continue to create an inclusive culture with organizations like The Alumni Society,
and innovative company. We believe that driving awareness of NIKE as a career
a diverse leadership allows us to not only destination for racial and ethnic minorities,
serve our consumers and their communities offering focused development opportunities
better, but also be a better company. for a diversity of internal talent at the mid-
level and above and enhancing the
We have focused our efforts in two different day-to-day sense of community for
areas: hiring new, world-class talent, and a diversity of populations at NIKE.
retaining them, which includes developing
and promoting internal talent across For example, in FY22 we continued to
all levels and across all U.S. racial and expand participation in McKinsey &
ethnic minorities. Company’s management program for
mid-level leaders and McKinsey Academy
In FY22, we increased the percentage of for our Senior Directors, Vice Presidents
U.S. racial and ethnic minorities at Director and CNEXT platform emerging leaders.
level and above to 34.5%. This is a four We continued to invest in NikeUNITED
2025 Target
percentage point increase, putting us Networks and have steadily increased
30
above our 2025 target of 30% in FY22. participation in NIKE’s DEI mentorship
program for corporate employees in the
%
U.S., which strives to further promote equity,
opportunity, belonging and inclusivity.
In FY22, 1,028 employees participated
in the program across 19 functions, and
98.5% of participants found the program
a “valuable experience overall.”
Representation & Hiring
People
OUR NIKEUNITED − Ability* Network
− Ascend Network & Friends
NETWORKS − Black Employee Network & Friends
− Latino & Friends Network
− NIKE Military Veterans & Friends
The NikeUNITED Employee Networks bring − Native American Network & Friends
together employees and allies who represent − PRIDE Network
the unique experiences, perspectives, − Women of NIKE & Friends
and ideas of our diverse global employee
team. Networks serve to advance the Converse has also adopted this model
development of their members, promote with five distinct Employee Networks,
NIKE cultural awareness, and demonstrate collectively known as ConverseUNITED,
our commitment to Diversity Equity, & including Converse Mosaic Network,
Inclusion in the communities where we live Converse Pride Network, Women of
and work. All the Networks have Executive Converse, Converse Military Veterans
Leadership sponsorship and meet regularly and Converse Abilities Network.
with Executive Leadership and our President
and CEO, John Donahoe. More information can be found at
NikeUNITED.
NIKE Black
Employee Network
& Friends
Skate Night
Representation & Hiring
People
Leadership Positions (Director Level and Above) – Racial Category
Change
FY21 FY22 FY21–FY22
# % # % # p.p.
American Indian or Alaskan Native 9 0.2% 14 0.3% 5 0.1 p.p.
(Not Hispanic/Latino)
Asian (Not Hispanic/Latino) 610 13.6% 760 15.5% 150 1.9 p.p.
Black or African American 256 5.7% 333 6.8% 77 1.1 p.p.
(Not Hispanic/Latino)
Hispanic/Latino 285 6.4% 340 6.9% 55 0.6 p.p.
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander 9 0.2% 8 0.2% -1 0.0 p.p.
(Not Hispanic/Latino)
Two or More Races 196 4.4% 236 4.8% 40 0.4 p.p.
(Not Hispanic/Latino)
Unknown 35 0.8% 49 1.0% 14 0.2 p.p.
White (Not Hispanic/Latino) 3,073 68.7% 3,164 64.5% 91 -4.2 p.p.
Total 4,473 100% 4,904 100% 431
Representation & Hiring
People
% U.S. racial and FY21 FY22
ethnic minorities in U.S. 34.5 38.8
% %
corporate workforce
Quantitative Target
35% representation of U.S.
racial and ethnic minorities
in our U.S. corporate workforce
In FY22, NIKE increased from 34.5% to
People Profile
38.8% representation of U.S. racial and
ethnic minorities in the U.S. corporate
workforce, seeing a 4.3 percentage points
increase, and surpassing the 2025 target
three years early.
We are continuing our commitment to
increasing overall representation of racial
Izzy Yasana Hawley
and ethnic minorities in the corporate
workforce by investing in new hiring and NA Consumer Direct
retention practices and focusing on targeted
Marketing Unite Manager
development offerings for racial and ethnic
Klamath | Modoc | Filipina
minorities in the U.S.
2025 Target
35
From a hiring perspective, we have
“ I have an overwhelming sense of
increased our DEI partnerships and financial
pride as I reflect on the work that
%
commitments to include 50 organizations as
the Native American Network is
part of our efforts to diversify our candidates.
doing and will do for our community.
My passion and purpose is to provide
positive representation and visibility
for Indigenous peoples, and to amplify
sustainable change within NIKE
and beyond.”
Representation & Hiring
People
NIKE sponsored L’ATTITUDE, a business- inspiring storytelling panel featuring NIKE The Converse All Star Design Team (ASDT)
based national initiative and event bringing designers, followed by a design pitch from apprenticeship program actively allows
together over 3,000 leaders focused on the five student teams, with the winning team young creatives from diverse cultural and
New Mainstream Economy and the U.S. receiving scholarships. educational backgrounds to be part of the
Latino cohort. NIKE’s engagement included Converse Design and Innovation team, with
a Fireside Chat with our President and CEO, NIKE launched a series of career content the two-fold goal of potentially converting
John Donahoe and a session on Powering in partnership with Blavity, featuring the apprentices to full-time employees and
Latina Leadership with NIKE board member three Black NIKE technologists from strengthening the design community by
Mónica Gil, and additional sessions featuring varying levels within the company. adding more diverse talent and perspectives.
NIKE executives, athletes and partners, with The series celebrates our technologists We grew our outreach from 210 creatives
discussions celebrating Latina leaders in and their professional journeys, as well in Year 1 to over 300 in Year 2, specifically
sport and mental wellness. NIKE’s presence as achievements throughout their careers. targeting the Boston, New York City and
at L’ATTITUDE brought together NIKE LatinX The series received 214,000 impressions, Philadelphia metro areas. For both years,
teammates across all levels and functions, reaching a global audience through creatives were narrowed down to classes
including representation from LatinX Blavity and NIKE channels. of 15 design apprentices. Year 1 saw six
executives, the Latino & Friends Network apprentices join the Converse Design and
and NIKE retail athletes. NIKE continues to support Harlem’s Fashion Innovation team in roles across the function.
Row, a key strategic partner whose mission is Of the six, three have been converted to full-
Working in partnership with Raedio, LLC, to build community and elevate the voice and time employees. Year 2 saw four apprentices
NIKE sponsored Issa Rae’s HOORAE work of multicultural designers. We hosted the join Converse Design and Innovation team in
Takeover – a four-day festival celebrating third Annual Harlem’s Fashion Row Designer roles across the function.
Black creatives in art, music, media and Retreat presented by NIKE, bringing together
other fields. NIKE’s participation included designers of color for a multiday summit Additionally, 31 employees received their
an innovative community activation featuring notable designers and brands. first bachelor’s degrees at the University
led by NIKE’s Until We All Win grantee This event provides resources and creates of Memphis with support from Lane Four,
and nonprofit partner, Beyond the Ball. space for designers to learn tools and develop NIKE’s tuition-paid benefit program in
The event, “NIKE Storytelling by Design,” relationships that will help this community partnership with the University of Memphis
engaged local students from Howard grow their brands and advance their careers. for North America Distribution Center and Air
University for a sneaker design competition. Manufacturing Innovation (Air MI) teammates.
This competition culminated with an
Member of the
Converse All Star
Design Team
Representation & Hiring
People
For the Converse intern program, the
University Relations team has prioritized
expanding its relationships and consideration
set for the application pool, in terms of cities
and schools. The team has several sourcing
strategies to ensure roles are posted and
accessible to as many students as possible
across the U.S. For FY22, Converse had
a cohort of 20 interns, with 50% female
participation and 80% from U.S. racial and
ethnic minorities. This is the most diverse
intern class to date at Converse.
We also continued the rollout of the
mentorship program for managers and
above, which strives to promote equity,
opportunity, belonging and an inclusive
culture. In FY22, we launched the fifth cohort
of DEI mentorship, with a total of 1,028
participants across 19 different functions.
The cohort, which reported a satisfaction
rate of 98.5%, will be expanded in FY23 with
pilots in Converse and outside of corporate,
hopefully leading to a global expansion.
Participants in
the Converse
internship program
Representation & Hiring
People
NATIVE AMERICAN As part of its ongoing network strategy,
NAN has five main priorities for FY23:
NETWORK (NAN)
− Increasing Indigenous representation
to 3% by partnering with internal and
NAN’s work throughout FY22 had external talent acquisition specialists to
measurable impact in each focus area, with create the recruitment pathways needed
highlights including representation, visibility to meet the goal
and community.
− Celebrating Indigenous athletes by
As it relates to representation, NAN featuring events such as Haudenosaunee
featured 32 speakers, seven guests and National Lacrosse Team signing
160 Indigenous community members
and advocates at various internal and − Building and celebrating community by
external events. The third annual NIKE hosting events that celebrate, educate
Footprint Summit focused on increasing and empower friends and allies
representation of Indigenous talent at NIKE
by identifying tangible solutions that lead − Including all new programing for
to real change. Indigenous Peoples’ Day
On the visibility front, hundreds of − Promoting awareness through advocacy
teammates attended Native American by engaging with N7 athletes and the
Heritage Month (NAHM) events, and dozens wider NIKE community to bring attention
of tribal flags flew at the third annual NAHM to causes such as the Missing and
flag-raising ceremony at NIKE World Murdered Indigenous Women, Girls
Headquarters. and Two-Spirit People program
When it comes to community, NAN − Developing Indigenous talent by
partnered with the White House and the continuing to work with NikeUNITED
Center for Native American Youth to discuss Networks and other allies to
sports and mental health at the White develop leadership pathways
House Tribal Youth Forum. In addition, for Indigenous employees
NAN elevated Indigenous artists and
activists through the power of NikeUNITED’s
larger network.
Haudenosaunee
National Lacrosse
Team signing event
Representation & Hiring
People
NIKE, Inc. Totals by Racial Ethnic Minority (REM) Group (Global/Corporate)32
Change
All Employees FY21 FY22 FY21–FY22
# % # % # p.p.
Corporate – Racial Category
American Indian or Alaskan Native 48 0.4% 50 0.3% 2 0.0 p.p.
(Not Hispanic/Latino)
Asian (Not Hispanic/Latino) 2,073 15.1% 2,561 17.0% 488 1.8 p.p.
Black or African American 763 5.6% 1,062 7.0% 299 1.5 p.p.
(Not Hispanic/Latino)
Hispanic/Latino 976 7.1% 1,221 8.1% 245 1.0 p.p.
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander 48 0.4% 53 0.4% 5 0.0 p.p.
(Not Hispanic/Latino)
Two or More Races 820 6.0% 914 6.1% 94 0.1 p.p.
(Not Hispanic/Latino)
Unknown 77 0.6% 166 1.1% 89 0.5 p.p.
White (Not Hispanic/Latino) 8,906 65.0% 9,071 60.1% 165 -4.9 p.p.
Total 13,711 100% 15,098 100% 1,387 0.0 p.p.
32 Corporate is associated with the workforce not directly involved in retail stores, distribution centers or Air Manufacturing Innovation (Air MI).
Coaching Diaries
People
SPEN D A DAY WITH:
EM IKO McCOY
Performance Apparel Designer,
Beaverton, Oregon, USA
“Being a BIPOC designer, I know how important
diversity is. That’s the beauty of the Serena Williams
Design Crew, it brings that diversity into NIKE, not just
into design but into so many different departments.”
People Coaching Diaries Designing for her Design challenges
We usually start a new season with a design At NIKE, I’ve learned that you need to take time
meeting. This is where we get our briefs and to understand how people use the products we
start to bounce ideas around: What is it we’re design. This was especially true of the maternity
problem-solving? Whom are we designing for? range, NIKE M. I don’t have kids, so I had to work
harder to understand that journey. To suddenly
I come out of design sessions full of ideas: the have this growing belly, what does that feel like?
history of NIKE as a heritage brand, the lives of I looked at mothers. I noticed how women were
the women we’re designing for, and the potential wearing their partner’s shorts, folding over the
of the materials we’re working with. So it’s time waistband to make room for their bumps. She
to sketch – I always have a pencil in my hand. is literally showing us what she needs, right? So
Drawing lets me work out these ideas in relation to that’s a lesson: I’m not in her shoes, but I can let
the curves of the body: how are the pieces going her guide me.
to perform? Where will she need compression
and where will she need more freedom?
For Emiko McCoy, design is about empathy.
Finding space
Emiko knows how it feels to be that 13-year-
I love to take walks around the lake at NIKE World
old girl on the field in the shorts from last year’s
Headquarters. I’m that person on campus who’s
uniform, still getting comfortable with a changing
always taking pictures of the flowers. I can find
inspiration that way, for sure, but it’s also just a
body. She wants to make apparel that brings girls
great way to decompress and refresh for the next
back to sport, that gives them the compression
part of the day.
and the self-expression they need to feel confident
Starting the day right
It’s only by looking after yourself that you have
in any kind of movement.
the energy to give to others. I try to reach out
First thing I do in the morning is find some to students and young designers when I can.
movement. I’m trying to get back into boxing at Sometimes that’s a cup of coffee with someone
After school one afternoon, her mom left an article the moment. And then, of course, it comes back just starting at NIKE, or giving a talk at a design
to Serena. She described to me once how she school. We need to listen to the people who are
out on the counter about Serena and Venus
would enter the court, using the walk through the coming up after us. They’re the future, right?
Williams. Emiko was gripped by what she read: tunnel to the court as a place to focus her mind.
When I arrive at the NIKE campus, that’s my
the sisters had decided to complement their tennis
tunnel moment. Out of the car, hoodie up, head
careers by studying fashion design. Immediately, down, earpods in, music blasting.
Emiko saw a path for herself. She found out where
I usually have an idea of how I want to start my
they went to school in Florida and applied. “To day, but it changes all the time. I work between
the Serena Williams Building and the LeBron
see someone that looked like me, designing,”
James building, where I contribute to the Space
Emiko remembers, “that was a defining moment Hippie line of sustainability-minded footwear, The five to nine
so the first thing I need to do is figure out where
in my life.”
I need to be. When I was working in New York, I realized most
designers don’t have balanced lives. When you’re
working on a creative project it’s hard to know
In 2020, she joined the first cohort of the Serena
when to stop. But my puppy Cooper helps me
Williams Design Crew, a diverse collective of take care of both of us. He’s a Shih Tzu–Bichon
mix, a real cutie patootie. I’ll take him out, so we
emerging designers committed to redrawing the
can walk and just kind of breathe out the day.
future of design. She now works at NIKE World
Headquarters as an apparel designer for NIKE
Pro, and previously on the maternity line, NIKE (M).
Representation & Hiring
People
A
$10M investment
in HBCUs and HSIs
Target (Cumulative)
10
$ M
Quantitative Target (Corporate)
$10 million investment in Historically Black
Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and
Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs)
NIKE’s commitment to taking action For the first time since the pandemic,
to create a better world is reflected in we returned to the NIKE World Headquarters
its continued support of HBCUs and (WHQ) campus for an in-person,
HSIs through Purpose-driven product, comprehensive summer internship
storytelling, recruitment and investments. experience to help drive recruitment, interest
At NIKE, we’re working to enable and hires. During a nine-week experience,
representation to exist at all levels and that our talented group of over 300 interns
starts by cultivating and hiring more students worked on meaningful projects across
from a diverse set of institutions. In FY22, a variety of business areas. Within our
we saw positive movement in the diversity summer 2022 intern class, 56% identified
of our interns and direct hires. as U.S. racial and ethnic minorities and 58%
identified as women. The students from
We continue to build and execute on a 113 universities around the country included
comprehensive HBCU and HSI strategy representatives from 15 HBCUs and HSIs
through year-round engagement. In alignment and brought a diverse range of skills and
with NIKE’s Black Community Commitment, backgrounds to help create the future of
we increased our virtual and on-campus sport. Students from HBCUs and HSIs
engagement with HBCUs. Our Diversity represented 21% of our intern class (HBCUs:
Recruitment team hosted resume writing 4%, HSIs: 17%). NIKE’s summer internship
workshops, interview preparation sessions program aims to convert 50% of interns
and informational meetings to help our into full-time employees in FY23.
FY22 1.3 1.75
ecosystem of HBCUs to have multiple points
$ M $ M
of contact and access to NIKE opportunities
throughout the year.
FY21 .45
$ M
Representation & Hiring
People
46. 5
During FY22, we also laid the foundation and an emphasis on university and industry
recruitment efforts for our global internship candidates. This year, the engagement
program. The Global University Relations was once again 100% virtual and included
team recruited and hired 88 interns for a mix of internal and external speakers
internships in NIKE’s Europe, Middle East including NIKE executives and sponsored %
and Africa (EMEA) offices. 46.5% of this athletes. NIKE continued our investment
intern class identifed as female and 24 in the American Indian Science and
nationalities across EMEA represented. Engineering Society (AISES) and sponsored
the registration fee for 50 members of the
We continue making progress toward our University of Oklahoma AISES chapter. of interns in our EMEA internship identified as female
target of investing $10 million over five years As a result of our AISES partnership, we
in the form of scholarships and academic made valuable connections with students
partnerships to increase direct hires and pursuing careers in STEM. Additionally,
interns from HBCUs. In FY22, we delivered NIKE also worked with and invited
$1 . 3
$100,000 each in academic scholarships community members from multiple tribes in
to seven HBCUs, $500,000 to Morehouse Washington state and Idaho to a customized
College and $100,000 to the United Negro event to learn more about our internship
College Fund (Atlanta). NIKE donated an and career opportunities.
M
additional $25,000 in scholarships directly
to Howard University students through a Early-in-career and emerging-talent-
bespoke Storytelling by Design Panel and development programs are critical
Sneaker Lab Competition. to NIKE’s strategic hiring. We continued
our investment in the Marketing Vanguard
were delivered in academic scholarships to eight
In addition to supporting HBCUs and HSIs, Program (MVP), built to accelerate the
and to help further increase diversity and flow of graduate-level talent from diverse HBCUs and United Negro College Fund
inclusion within our pool of applicants, backgrounds and experiences. We have
NIKE’s University Relations and Recruiting also launched, and recruited students for,
programs continue to strengthen existing an HR rotational program modeled after
relationships and build new partnerships MVP. Our inaugural class yielded six interns
with more than 30 Tribal Colleges and and four full-time employees from diverse
Universities (TCUs). In FY22, we hosted backgrounds and we will continue to grow
our third annual NIKE Footprint Summit the program in FY23.
focused on creating pathways for Native
and Indigenous community members with
Representation & Hiring
People
Additionally, we continue to leverage In the spirit of co-creation, NIKE worked
diversity conferences and partnerships with four Yardrunners alumni who identify
like Management Leadership for Tomorrow as Black women on the design of HBCU-
and The Consortium to attract talent for licensed footwear, leveraging the iconic
programs like our summer internship, direct NIKE Dunk silhouette to highlight four
hire and graduate-level rotational programs. institutions: Tennessee State University,
Clark Atlanta University, Florida A&M
This year, the NIKE Yardrunners program University and North Carolina Agricultural
founded by NIKE HBCU alumni served as and Technical University.
an opportunity for teams at NIKE to partner
with HBCU trailblazers and community We also continue to track our progress in
creatives to create inspirational storytelling representation from universities relative to
and philanthropy for the community. U.S. racial and ethnic minorities and women
Through Yardrunners 3.0, NIKE worked globally – we understand that there is no
with the community to tell authentic stories, finish line. This allows us to understand how
co-create culturally relevant product, our university and early-in-career efforts
deliver scholarships, activate on campuses impact and contribute to NIKE’s 2025 Black
throughout homecoming and establish Community Commitments.
networking opportunities through NIKE’s
University Recruiting team with a sharp
focus on engaging candidates from a
diversity of backgrounds.
The NIKE
Yardrunners
program
Representation & Hiring
People
Qualitative Target
Enhance opportunities and marketing of
open roles for Firstline athletes to compete
for corporate roles
Our Firstline athletes employees who work
People Profile
at NIKE retail stores, distribution centers and
Air MI, are talented individuals from different
cultures and backgrounds across the globe.
They reflect the communities where we live,
work and serve, and possess a wealth of
product knowledge and consumer insights.
For that reason, the NIKE Athlete Experience
Sharron Cairns
(NAX) function exists to obsess the end-
to-end experience for our retail Firstline Athlete Voice Manager,
teammates. One pillar of NAX, Firstline
EMEA NAX
Programs, equips our retail Firstline
teammates with accessible pathways to
broaden their skills and competencies “During Pride month, we created
through corporate and retail work space for members from our first line
opportunities. The suite of NAX programs to come out to teammates and share
provide curated and intentional experiences their personal stories. These moments
at WHQ and in the field to further my passion to do more, to push
elevate talent within the NIKE ecosystem, more and to be a part of more so all
and develop the future leaders of NIKE. employees can be their truest and most
authentic selves. I want to inspire others
In FY22, we were able to tap into and elevate to believe in themselves, by being my
the largest and most diverse talent pool yet own authentic self.”
at NIKE. We currently have five programs
that sit within our suite of career experiences
Our firstline athletes
in the NAX program for Firstline retail
can access programs
athletes, and hope to expand into Converse, to learn more about
distribution centers and Air MI in FY23. the business while
upskilling.
Representation & Hiring
People
THE ACADEMY RETAIL EXPERIENCE Sixteen cohorts, totaling 81 employees,
participated in the program in FY22
PROGRAM (REP) compared to 53 participants in FY21.
The Academy is a one-year rotational Twenty participants were hired into new
program that is open to both past and full-time employee roles: two within the
present U.S. retail store managers and REP invests in the development of our store and 18 at WHQ. These metrics highlight
assistant store managers. Participants Firstline athletes through a four-month that Track Stretch HQ is a great platform
spend four months working at the manager program within NIKE tech and digital to create exposure and engagement for
level across three business functions, disciplines that leverages their retail Firstline athletes to find their future path
allowing for exposure across all of NIKE experiences. After completing the REP, – creating the potential future leaders of
Direct. At the end of the Academy program individuals return to stores with an NIKE from within. We also expanded and
experience, participants are placed in a full- opportunity to apply what they have learned scaled the Track Stretch HQ framework to
time, manager-level role within NIKE Direct, as they continue to build their career in retail Asia-Pacific and Latin America (APLA) and
North America. or at WHQ. Greater China, creating a consistent and
equitable experience for our Firstline retail
In FY22, The Academy launched its In FY22, REP had three new cohorts of eight athletes globally to stretch from retail to a
fourth cohort, with six total Head Coach individuals – totaling 24 participants. Two corporate role.
participants from three different territories. participants achieved promotions to in-store
The participants had rotations in North leadership and four participants were hired
America store concepts, consumer services into roles at WHQ after the program.
and online-to-offline (O2O), and landed
full-time, manager-level roles in Unite, Live,
consumer services, NAX and O2O. We also TRACK STRETCH HQ
expanded the eligibility for the FY23 cohort
of The Academy to include our Assistant
Head Coach population. The main objective of Track Stretch HQ is to
provide exposure and experience of various
career paths for our Firstline athletes across
a breadth of functions at WHQ through
a six-month development experience
stretch. Our Firstline athletes bring their
strong marketplace, product and consumer
knowledge into the corporate environment,
and at the end of the stretch experience,
participants return to their store and roles
with an opportunity to apply what they
have learned.
Retail Experience
Program
Representation & Hiring
People
TRACK and NIKE app channels as NIKE experts
on demand. This program is exclusive to our
STRETCH RETAIL part-time population, in partnership with the
Consumer Services team in North America.
The pilot cohort had 10 part-time athletes
In FY22, we piloted Track Stretch Retail participating, two of whom saw career
to serve those interested in growing their growth moves to WHQ roles in Consumer
career within retail – creating an experience Services. The program is approved to
for in-store retail stretches with structured continue into FY23.
onboarding and a curated learning journey
through the cohort model. The initial In addition to employee experience
program had 11 participants from 10 stores, programs, we have also updated our
of whom four participants were promoted approach by providing greater visibility
to the retail leadership roles they were into Gateway roles, which are functional
stretching into. We are planning to scale roles at WHQ that are a good match for the
this program to all of North America in transferable interests of Firstline employees.
FY23 and allow the framework to inform While our NAX efforts are specifically for
in-store stretch experiences across our Firstline retail teammates, Gateway
other geographies. roles are accessible to all employees (in
retail, distribution centers and Air MI).
The NAX and Recruiting Programs team
UNIFIED FIRSTLINE partnered with functions to identify roles
and job families that would make good
Gateway roles and then made these roles
Unified Firstline was another net-new visible to Firstline employees on an ongoing
program in FY22, designed to bridge basis. Firstline employees can now view
the gap between physical and digital a curated list of open corporate roles that
consumer service, enabling our part- match their interests on the external NIKE
time athletes to expand their skills and careers site, so that they may easily find and
capabilities developed in stores by also apply for open roles and participate in the
serving consumers digitally on our nike.com competitive process.
NIKE Track Stretch
teammates
Pay & Benefits
People
Quantitative Target (Corporate)
Maintain 100% pay equity across all
employee levels on an annual basis
NIKE’s total rewards are designed to sustain 1:1
a culture in which everyone feels included,
empowered and rewarded for the success
we create as a team. Our competitive and
equitable total rewards aim to meet the
diverse needs of our global teammates and men/women
reinforce our values.
1:1
A personalized and holistic rewards system
is essential to attracting, inspiring and
developing premier talent. We link pay to
company performance, demonstrated
and expected individual performance,
white/U.S. racial
contributions and impact, and key talent
needs for NIKE’s long-term growth. and ethnic minorities
Company performance plays a significant
role in our short-term and long-term
incentives; individual performance informs
rewards like base pay increases and
milestone bonuses, as well as promotions
into roles with more scope and responsibility.
Pay & Benefits
People
COMPETITIVE AND At NIKE, we define pay equity as equal OUR COMMITMENT
compensation for employees who undertake
EQUITABLE PAY the same work at the same career level, TO TRANSPARENCY
location, experience and performance.
Globally, we assess this across gender,
We believe that competitive and equitable and in the U.S., we also assess this across Transparency at NIKE is the sharing of
rewards go hand in hand while recognizing racial and ethnic minorities. Since signing relevant information to drive better decisions
that pay can be managed and assessed in a the White House Equal Pay Pledge in 2016, related to pay – for employees, leaders and
number of ways. Each year, NIKE analyzes we have developed an ongoing discipline candidates. We believe that by infusing
benchmark data from other leading global of reviewing our pay practices annually to transparency into our policies and practices,
companies to inform salary investments and achieve and maintain pay equity for our we build trust and accountability – both of
adjust pay rates and ranges. approximately 80,000 teammates across which are integral to our culture.
all geographies, functions and business
During FY21, we implemented a minimum units. Our FY22 data shows that NIKE has In FY22, we enhanced our commitment
hourly rate of $15 for retail store teammates maintained 1:1 pay equity. Since FY20, for to educate employees on talent and pay
in North America and in FY22 we increased every $1 earned by men, women globally practices – creating expanded resources
our starting hourly rates for store employees earned $1, and for every $1 earned by white and hosting live training sessions. The
across EMEA and Mexico. We also employees in the U.S., racial and ethnic goal of these global information sessions
increased hourly rates to $18 for distribution minority employees earned $1. was to strengthen manager capability
center employees in North America in FY22. and confidence in having productive pay
We did that through competitive pay conversations. The live training sessions
assessment. An investment was also made were well received, with managers reporting
in merit increases to enable continued greater understanding and increased
market competitiveness. We are reviewing comfort levels educating their teams
and refreshing our internal pay infrastructure on how pay decisions are made.
to strengthen market relevancy and
competitive positioning in an ever-changing
external macro environment. We have made
additional investments in high-performing
talent, aligning to their performance
and potential.
Knoxville retail
athletes
Future Address
People
AGroDwiDngR upE inS mSyI sNmaGll N orthern California town, there wasn’t
a girls’ soccer team for me to join. Now we have the eyes of
TthHe wEor ldF oUn TWoUmRenE’s C hampionship matches. Our games are
breaking global records of attendance. That’s what progress
with
looks like, and what it means to be acknowledged. When I was
Megan Rapinoe
young, I could play on boys’ teams and I was able to find my feet,
hone my craft, and discover my gift. That was before off-the-field
comments made it clear that many thought girls shouldn’t com-
pete with boys, let alone beat them. But I kept playing, and win-
ning, and fighting my way onto teams where I not only felt like I
belonged, but began to understand that I had an critical role to
play. As I rose to play on the U.S. Women’s National Soccer Team,
so did the public’s interest in women’s soccer; what still needs to
increase is equal pay for Women across the board. That’s why I
use my skill as a player and my voice as an athlete to ask what
true equity looks like, so that we are not leaving anyone behind.
People Future Address “I use my skill as a player and my voice as
an athlete to ask what true equity looks like,
so that we are not leaving anyone behind.”
Growing up in my small Northern California town,
there wasn’t a girls’ soccer team for me to join.
Now we have the eyes of the world on Women’s
Championship matches. Our games are breaking
global records of attendance. That’s what progress
looks like, and what it means to be acknowledged.
When I was young, I could play on boys’ teams
and I was able to find my feet, hone my craft and
discover my gift. That was before off-the-field
comments made it clear that many thought girls
shouldn’t compete with boys, let alone beat them.
But I kept playing, and winning, and fighting my
way onto teams where I not only felt like I belonged,
but began to understand that I had an critical role
to play. importance of authenticity and belonging. And
what it means to show up as your whole self.
As I rose to play on the U.S. Women’s National
Soccer Team, so did the public’s interest in Creating that sense of belonging, for everyone
women’s soccer; what still needs to increase is in the next generation, is as important to me as
equal pay for women across the board. That’s why playing the best game I can. I appreciate the steps
I use my skill as a player and my voice as an athlete Nike is taking inside its business, and beyond, to
to ask what true equity looks like, so that we are prioritize inclusivity, and give all voices a moment to
not leaving anyone behind. be heard. And even more can be done.
Playing alongside amazing athletes, like my Our society today can only be stronger, when we
teammate Quinn, pushes me to the edge of my are more inclusive – in how we see each other,
game. They, along with other trailblazing members and champion one another. That is a future worth
of the trans community, are shining a light on the fighting for.
Stand strong,
Megan
Pay & Benefits
People
Qualitative Target
Provide competitive and equitable
benefits for all employees
We believe benefits should be
comprehensive and inclusive. To best
serve our diverse team of approximately
80,000 employees, we offer a variety of
benefits so teammates can choose the
best options for their life and family.
We design inclusive, value-driven
programs and practices that anticipate
and serve the needs of teammates at all
stages of life and positively impact their
well-being. Our decisions and program
design are guided by NIKE’s values and
goals, employee insights and feedback,
and market data.
Appreciation Day at
NIKE Korea office
Pay & Benefits
People
94 EVOLVING − In FY22, NIKE teammates and their
dependents engaged in more than
% OUR BENEFITS 35,000 counseling sessions.
− NIKE offers a variety of family-building
of NIKE employees value A big part of supporting our teammates is benefits – including fertility treatment,
listening to their feedback to inform what we adoption and surrogacy coverage – to
the benefits offered to them
offer. We’re always asking ourselves whether support all paths to parenthood. During
our programs and practices are having the FY22, we expanded our fertility benefits
desired impact and where we can improve. through Progyny, Inc. so U.S. NIKE
92
teammates now have access to unlimited
During FY22, we introduced several new and “Smart Cycles” for fertility services
%
enhanced offerings: like IVF, egg retrieval, sperm freezing,
and more.
− We launched a new benefit with Lyra
were satisfied or very satisfied
Health to provide mental health support − We offer inclusive family-planning
with the mental healthcare for our employees in the U.S. With Lyra, benefits and transgender care, including
employees have access to timely care travel costs when services are not
approach meeting their needs
through a high-quality and diverse available locally. Our comprehensive
provider network, as well as guided self- transgender healthcare is inclusive of
care and meditations. Ninety-two percent services recommended in the latest World
were satisfied or very satisfied with the Professional Association for Transgender
care approach meeting their needs. Health (WPATH) standards of care
and includes access to a dedicated
− At the same time, NIKE expanded its transgender healthcare advocate to help
Employee Assistance Program (EAP) navigate care and insurance coverage.
so that all global employees and their
family members have access to 20 fully
covered therapy sessions per year.
EAP counselors are carefully chosen
and trained to support mental health,
substance abuse, marital and family
challenges, depression, anxiety, building
stress resiliency and achieving balance.
Confidential support is available 24/7.
NIKE employees
have access to
family-building
benefits
Pay & Benefits
People
CRISIS SUPPORT Beyond COVID-19, we support employees
in a variety of ways during times of crisis.
We continue to support our employees − NIKE provides pay continuity when stores
through challenges related to the or operations need to close due to natural
COVID-19 pandemic. disasters or other unforeseen situations.
During FY22, we extended and replenished − We provide mental health support
our COVID Sick Leave policy, which – in through our EAP with individual, group
addition to existing paid time off benefits or onsite counseling.
– provides up to two regularly scheduled
work weeks of paid sick leave. Teammates − Through our Natural Disaster Assistance
can take COVID Sick Leave when they program, we provide financial and lodging
experience symptoms associated with support to employees who have been
COVID-19, need to take time off to care for severely impacted by a natural disaster.
their children due to school or childcare
closure, or need time away to prioritize their − NIKE matches employees’ cash
mental and emotional well-being. donations to organizations supporting
those affected by the crisis through Give
In light of the COVID-19 pandemic and Your Best, the company’s employee
related challenges, NIKE absorbed giving platform.
healthcare premium increases for the past
two years, so NIKE teammates were able To support teammates impacted by the
to continue their coverage at the same cost war in Ukraine, we provided pay continuity
year-over-year. to retail employees when stores were
closed, continued access to life insurance
and provided additional EAP support
to teammates across EMEA who were
affected by the conflict.
NIKE Live
Kings Road
Pay & Benefits
People
NIKE WELL-BEING As champions of physical well-being,
we encourage employees to make sport
BENEFITS a daily habit by providing free access
to NIKE Sports Centers, wide-ranging
fitness discounts and comprehensive
NIKE continues to prioritize and invest in preventive programs, healthcare and
the holistic well-being of our employees family building benefits.
and their families, supporting their physical,
emotional and financial well-being. To support the financial well-being of our
teammates, we offer unlimited free financial
From mental health support to unlimited free coaching through Ernst & Young, as well as a
financial coaching – and, of course, access 401(k) match, scholarship programs, tuition
to sport – we are committed to helping our reimbursement, dependent care subsidies,
teammates live their most fulfilling lives – performance bonuses, stock purchase plans
at work and outside of it. When we support and more.
the well-being of our employees and inspire
each individual to be their best self, we do NIKE offers workplace flexibility and
our best work as a team. generous time off, including half-day Fridays
throughout the summer and a closing of
To support emotional well-being, NIKE our corporate offices for a dedicated Well-
offers 20 free therapy and coaching sessions Being Week in August where we take time
to employees and their family members off together as a team to focus on our well-
through Lyra Health and EAP, as well as being, plus Well-Being Days for teammates
a range of meditation, mindfulness and in our retail stores and distribution centers.
caregiving resources. We also offer onsite
EAP support at our distribution centers.
NIKE is also a proud supporter of Crisis
Text Line, a nonprofit that provides free
24/7 crisis counseling via text messaging.
NIKE offers a range
of benefits to support
the emotional,
physical and
financial well-being
of our teammates
and their families.
Pay & Benefits
People
MENTAL HEALTH As a community, we are deeply committed
to helping break down the stigma associated
& EMOTIONAL with mental health and promoting habits
that nourish mind and body in everyday life.
WELL-BEING One of the ways we do that is by engaging
our NIKE family in conversations about
mental health.
During FY22, amid the ongoing pandemic
and in conjunction with our return to We frequently invite athletes to join
the workplace in many locations, we employee meetings so our teams around
intentionally focused our investments the world can hear firsthand about their
and energy on mental health. Based mental health and well-being strategies.
on employee feedback, we evolved our In FY22, we also produced a new podcast,
approach to support the well-being of No Off-Season, where our partners from
our retail store and distribution center Crisis Text Line interview NIKE athletes
teammates and introduced dedicated about their mental health journeys. Episodes
Well-Being Days for teammates to use feature candid conversations with athletes
at their convenience. We also launched such as Laurie Hernandez, Raven Saunders
a new internal Well-Being Hub to make and Karl-Anthony Towns.
it easy for teammates to find inspiration,
events, resources and benefits to
support their well-being.
NIKE
Well-Being Hub
Pay & Benefits
People
CULTURE & RETURN TO
LEADERSHIP THE WORKPLACE
We believe it’s our responsibility to maintain Well-being was a core element of our return
an inclusive, empathetic culture where every to the workplace in FY22. In addition to
employee can be their most authentic self – offering over 60 days’ notice of our return
and that means creating a safe place where date, we offered a ramp-up period to allow
we can be vulnerable, ask for help and admit employees an opportunity to gradually
when we’re not okay. reacclimate to the office. We also returned
in a new 3/2 hybrid work approach for the
Our leaders strive to model behaviors and majority of employees – three days a week
create an environment where employees feel in the office and two from home. Employees
empowered to prioritize their well-being. We in the 3/2 work approach also benefit from
celebrate leaders who lead with a well-being Four Week Flex – an opportunity to work
mindset and train leaders around the world from another location of their choice up to
on how to model behaviors that best support four weeks per year.
their team. Many of our most senior leaders
have been open about their own mental As teammates returned to campus and
health experiences and routines, which work locations around the world, we offered
has helped advance the dialogue among mindfulness and meditation activities
employees and teams. alongside our fitness facilities and classes.
We also continued our virtual offerings for
We partner closely with our NikeUNITED and a subset of our employees who are a part
ConverseUNITED Networks to understand of the remote work approach as well as
the unique well-being challenges facing people in other locations around the world.
diverse communities, and we strive to In addition, we intentionally re-onboarded
provide resources to meet those needs. teammates who had joined NIKE during
During FY22, we scheduled dedicated EAP the pandemic, and provided resources
sessions with specialized counselors for for leaders and teams supporting hybrid
several of our networks, including the Black work and new ways of working as they
Employee Network, Ascend Network, Pride transitioned. In the fall of FY22, we continued
Network, NIKE Military Veterans Network to provide onsite access to flu shots and
and more. COVID-19 boosters.
NIKE new hire
fitness class
Inclusive Culture & Engagement
People
Average % favorability Average % favorability
in engagement in inclusion
FY21 FY22 FY21 FY22
80 79 75 77
% % % %
Quantitative Target
Top quartile of benchmarked companies
for both engagement and inclusion
Top Quartile Benchmark
Top Quartile Benchmark
83
82
At NIKE, we are committed to creating As part of our strategic focus on building a
%
an engaging and inclusive culture where leading internal employee listening function, %
all teammates can authentically express in FY22 we moved to a new survey platform
themselves, become their best selves and benchmark provider. Due to this change,
and reach their full potential. this year we are reporting the percentage
of employees who agree or strongly agree
In FY22, we continued to measure (on a five-point scale), while in prior years
employee engagement and our culture of we reported percentiles. Additionally, we are
belonging through our annual All-Employee unable to report on a full Global Inclusion
Engagement survey and several corporate Index benchmark. However, we can
pulse surveys and listening sessions focused compare to a global benchmark for a subset
on topics that are important to employees, of our Inclusion Index (four out of six items).
including well-being, career progression and For that subset of items, favorability was
culture. The results show the Engagement 77% in FY22, up two percentage points from
and Inclusion Indexes are strong and FY21 and five percentage points below the
stable, and employees continue to respond 75th-percentile benchmark. The two items
favorably to NIKE’s support of their changing within our Global Inclusion Index that do not
needs while creating a culture of inclusion have benchmarks provide further insight
and belonging. into the holistic, felt experience of inclusion
at NIKE. Moving forward, we will continue
to evaluate and enhance our survey strategy
and inclusion measures to best represent
our employees’ voices and experiences as
part of our continued commitment to our
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion priorities.
Inclusive Culture & Engagement
People
EMPLOYEE We also introduced dedicated Well-Being FY22 also marked our return to the
Days for retail and distribution center workplace with a new hybrid model for our
ENGAGEMENT teammates to use when it’s convenient corporate employees. We hosted a series of
for them. And we continued our Summer events that eased the transition back to the
Fridays, when employees are encouraged workplace and strengthened the bonds that
We continued to focus on employee to stop working around noon on Fridays we have as NIKE employees. For example,
engagement in FY22, including building throughout the summer. We believe taking we hosted a Welcome Week Experience
out a rigorous employee voice program time to step away from work is important for U.S.-based corporate employees hired
to gather more frequent feedback and to help our employees be healthy, creative between March 2020 and April 2022. The
drive meaningful action and promoting key and productive. experience included events, campus tours
programs that aim to enhance the employee and giveaways to help newer employees feel
experience in a holistic way. For example: − We also expanded NIKE’s digital learning connected to NIKE and their new workplace.
platform, The Source, to increase And we continued to host a series of virtual
− Benefits to support teammates’ emotional, employee development through curated offerings for employees who are a part of the
physical and financial well-being (see Pay learning experiences. remote work approach or in other locations
& Benefits section for more details). around the world (see Pay & Benefits and
FY22 was also a significant year in our Well-Being sections for more details).
− Launched a new internal Well-Being Hub company’s history. We celebrated our 50th
to make it easy for teammates to find anniversary and hosted a series of events We are committed to addressing the needs of
inspiration, events, resources and benefits to show our appreciation to our employees, all employees, but we place a strong focus on
to support their well-being. partners and the communities we serve. We supporting underrepresented groups through
hosted “Appreciation Days” in offices and on our pillars of representation, education,
− Well-Being Week/Days & Summer campuses around the world, reconnecting development and creating community.
Fridays: For the second year in a row, we employees to our purpose with engaging
encouraged employees to participate in programming that started in April and
Well-Being Week, when the company continued through September with Just Do It
closes its corporate offices and Air MI (JDI) Day and the Maxim Awards ceremony.
facilities for a full week in the summer.
NIKE EMEA
Festival of Sport
Inclusive Culture & Engagement
People
DIVERSITY − Achieving recognition as one of the Best
Places to Work for LGBTQ+ employees for
AND INCLUSION the 20th consecutive year on the Human
Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality
Index. NIKE is one of only seven out of
As covered in greater depth throughout more than 1,200 participating companies
the People section of this report, we to achieve a 100% rating for the last two
continued to promote diversity and decades. The Corporate Equality Index
inclusion in FY22, including: is the preeminent national benchmarking
tool on corporate policies, practices and
− Increasing representation at all levels benefits pertinent to LGBTQ+ employees,
of the organization. and the primary driving force for LGBTQ+
workplace inclusion.
− Creating DEI learning and development
programming internally through the
NikeUNITED Networks and externally
through our DEI partners.
− Expanding the DEI mentorship program
for U.S. corporate employees.
− Increasing accessibility efforts to create
equitable and inclusive experiences for
our employees with disabilities. As a
result, NIKE was recognized as a “Best
Place to Work for Disability Inclusion”
with a score of 100 on the Disability:IN
Disability Equality Index – a globally
recognized benchmarking tool to
evaluate disability inclusion and equality.
NIKE contingent
at the Portland
Pride Parade
Inclusive Culture & Engagement
People
Qualitative Target
Continue to focus on improving access
to athletes of all abilities for our brand,
our experiences, our product, our
facilities and our company
We have a long history of disability inclusion
People Profile
at NIKE, from hiring disabled employees to
sponsoring adaptive athletes and innovating
new products such as FlyEase. To deepen
our strategic commitment, NIKE established
the Accessibility Center of Excellence (CoE)
to lead our global enterprise strategy on
accessibility and disability inclusion. Our
vision is to create an accessible, inclusive
Dr. Megan Lawrence
experience for all athletes* because if
you have a body, you are an athlete, and Global Director of
that includes people with disabilities. Our
Accessibility and
mission is to foster disability inclusion that
Disability Inclusion
drives innovation in collaboration with the
disability community.
“I am a proud disabled leader who is
Our global enterprise approach brings honored to champion accessibility in all
together teams from across NIKE. We run a things we do. We help create a strong
hub and spoke model with the Accessibility disability culture by driving accessibility
CoE collaborating with business units to for our employees and consumers,
drive forward accessibility and disability because we know disabilities are a
inclusion because we win as a team. strength at NIKE. We push boundaries
of what is possible to ensure the
disability community is part of NIKE.”
NIKE EMEA
Festival of Sport
Inclusive Culture & Engagement
People
The Accessibility CoE focuses on four stop there. We now have a FlyEase model
areas of strategic investment: of many of our sneakers, across price
points, to support independent living and
1 Disability Employee Experience to self-expression for people with disabilities.
strengthen the disability experiences We have continued to scale these learnings
across the employee lifecycle across our products, and this year launched
our Dynamo Go sneakers and our adaptive
2 Accessibility Innovation to engage in
clothing line for kids.
accessible design and create products
built for one and extended to many People
At the heart of the Accessibility CoE are
3 Inclusive Brand to elevate authentic
people – including our disabled employee
stories of people with disabilities and
community and the consumers we connect
community connections
with every day. We know that representation
4 Direct to Disabled Consumer to matters. In celebration of disability and
accelerate access and support sport, we launched our new adaptive
to the NIKE ecosystem with the workouts on the NIKE Training Club (NTC)
disability community with adaptive athlete Amy Bream. The
classes were created with accessibility and
Accessibility is part of NIKE’s DEI adaptive workouts in mind, all designed
commitment. We know that disability is part for people with and without a disability.
of diversity and that accessibility creates
Program
equitable experiences which, in turn, drive
inclusion. NIKE is recognized as a “Best In collaboration with our Social Community
Place to Work for Disability Inclusion” with a Impact team we provide grants to disability
score of 100 (up from 90 the previous year) organizations across the world. Mental
on the Disability:IN Disability Equality Index health, for example, is a disability with
– a globally recognized benchmarking tool. global impacts, and NIKE partners with
We channel our efforts in three areas: several mental health organizations. One
such group is the Ben Raemers Foundation,
Product
which highlights how skateboarding can
Our FlyEase sneakers are created with help people develop the skills and tools
insights from the disability community. needed to support themselves and each
FlyEase technology makes it seamless to other as well as to help understand and
put shoes on with no hands and/or easily address mental health through community
with limited interaction. First came the and sport.
FlyEase LeBron Soldier 10. But we didn’t
NIKE FlyEase Go
Future Address
People
In sport, and in life, it’s easy to let your own doubts weigh you down;
ADDRESSING
to tell yourself you don’t have what it takes. I envision a world where
everyone believes in the endless opportunity in being told you
THE FUTURE
“don’t have what it takes.” When I lost my lower legs and forearms
with
to meningitis at 11 years old, I was sure my dreams of fencing had
Bebe Vio
come to an end. I knew so much was going to change; that I was
going to have to put my foil down. I’d tell myself, “Gold medalists in
fencing need their arms and can’t be in wheelchairs.”
Then my mother told me something that turned my world upside
down (in a good way, don’t worry!). “Fencing, like art, lives in your
mind, not your hands,” she said. This stuck with me. It made me
question everything around me. It made me believe that just because
everyone else does something in a specific way, it doesn’t mean that
I have to.
I stand proudly today as an athlete with a disability. I’ve not only
People Future Address “I envision a world where everyone believes
in the endless opportunity in being told you
‘don’t have what it takes.’”
In sport, and in life, it’s easy to let your own doubts
weigh you down – to tell yourself you don’t have
what it takes. I envision a world where everyone
believes in the endless opportunity in being told
you “don’t have what it takes.”
When I lost my lower legs and forearms to
meningitis at 11 years old, I was sure my dreams
of fencing had come to an end. I knew so much
was going to change – that I was going to
have to put my foil down. I’d tell myself, “Gold
medalists in fencing need their arms and can’t be
in wheelchairs.” In 2021, I founded the Bebe Vio Academy and NIKE
has been my partner to help grow the Paralympic
Then my mother told me something that turned my movement in Italy. I want athletes like me, and the
world upside down (in a good way, don’t worry!). medalists of tomorrow, to live in a world where the
“Fencing, like art, lives in your mind, not your only limitations they have are their imaginations.
hands,” she said. This stuck with me. It made me
question everything around me. It made me believe When I, as the only fencer in the world who
that just because everyone else does something in competes without arms in a wheelchair, won
a specific way, it doesn’t mean that I have to. my second Paralympic gold medal I realized
something. To change the world, we have to let
I stand proudly today as an athlete with a disability. those who look up to us in on the most beautiful
I’ve not only found my own way, but I have the secret: Our imaginations – our minds – are what will
privilege of standing on the shoulders of those create a safer, more equitable world for everyone
who wouldn’t let adversity take them down. This regardless of ability, or disability, origin, skin color,
includes my family, coaches and mentors who sexual orientation or gender identity.
believe in me. And NIKE, who like me, understands
that good coaches can help kids see their potential. I firmly believe imagination is the most powerful
way to bring people along on our journey.
En garde,
Bebe
Additional Priority Area: Occupational Health & Safety
People
Additional Priority Area
Occupational Health & Safety
Our approach to occupational health and
safety (OH&S) rests on several foundational
pillars that we use to monitor our facilities’
adherence to our Foundational Expectations:
1 NIKE’s Environment, Health and Safety
(EHS) Policy
2 NIKE’s Code of Conduct
3 NIKE Code Leadership Standards
4 Local laws wherever we or our
suppliers operate
Certain NIKE owned and operated facilities
undergo external audits and internal
assessments. When those processes reveal
gaps in EHS standard implementation, we
initiate management plans and develop tools
to address and correct those problems.
NIKE Air MI
worker wearing
personal protective
equipment
Additional Priority Areas: Occupational Health & Safety
People
NIKE OWNED systems across 11 office locations – a deal Establishing baseline assessments across our
that included embedded training content. globally owned and operated locations will not
AND OPERATED Our North America distribution center only aid in legal compliance with local EHS
facilities implemented 24/7 onsite registered regulatory requirements, but also serve as
FACILITIES nurse and emergency medical technician NIKE’s foundational baseline and complement
oversight through a combination of internal existing conformance assessments conducted
and third-party vendor services. Air MI in accordance with NIKE Code Leadership
In FY22, COVID-19 response continued to locations embarked upon a comprehensive Standards and industry-wide Social & Labor
be a priority and a dominant component of injury-prevention program that established Convergence Program (SLCP) assessments
our work over the year. Our mitigation efforts onsite medical suites with licensed for certain participating facilities.
spanned the globe and touched all functions occupational athletic trainers and injury-
and locations. NIKE procured and distributed prevention specialists to treat and mitigate We will be partnering with industry experts to
more than 200,000 self-administered hazards associated with both personal and develop site-specific Emergency Response
COVID-19 tests free of charge to employees occupational injuries and illnesses. The Air Plans for all NIKE owned and operated
and contractors. We hosted COVID-19 and MI team also launched an employee-wide locations, which will include hazard-specific
flu vaccine clinics for both employees and culture of safety campaign focused on eight protocols in addition to updated evacuation
family members in the fall of 2021 at many SAFE (Safety and Accountability for Everyone) procedures, maps and complementary first
of our high-density locations globally. NIKE’s principles. The program includes employee- aid, automated external defibrillator, CPR
provision of face coverings and KN95 masks led training and individual commitments, and fire extinguisher education.
and sanitation supplies also continued in FY22. ensuring safety is an everyday commitment.
With a renewed focus on employee awareness
COVID-19 notifications and contact tracing Our Innovation EHS team elevated chemistry and individual preparedness, NIKE is working
were universally applied, with isolation and and machine safety programs across all units to secure and offer Occupational Safety and
quarantine policies that aligned to Centers with an enhanced job safety assessment Health Administration online training course
for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) digital application for equipment and machine content globally through the NIKE University
and local requirements. We closed out FY22 safety operations. learning management system.
with the return to workplace for our corporate
office employees. The response will continue We are also continuing to leverage and expand
into FY23 with newfound support and LOOKING AHEAD our internal EHS management system, which
resources to manage day-to-day governance gives employees the ability to report injuries,
as we return our focus to core EHS initiatives hazards and near misses across our office,
and objectives. In FY23, NIKE plans to launch its Global Office distribution, retail and manufacturing locations.
Safety program within select key city locations Understanding our leading and lagging
NIKE focused on updating life safety programs around the world. The program provides indicators with regards to EHS performance
in FY22 with a focus on occupational health, each NIKE office location with systems and will enable our future investments are made
emergency medical response programs tools to effectively implement injury response against risk-based priorities.
and injury prevention. In Greater China, we and reporting, life safety programs, EHS
partnered with International SOS to procure committee function and robust ergonomic
and install automated external defibrillator management systems.
NIKE Air MI
teammate at work
Education & Professional Development
People
% of VPs credentialed FY21 FY22
on Inclusive Leadership 0 45
% %
education
2025 Target
100
%
Quantitative Target
100% of Vice Presidents complete
and be credentialed on Inclusive
Leadership education
Our overarching objective is to develop We have also worked closely with our
inclusive leaders who are held accountable business and supporting functions to
for fostering our culture of belonging. As provide strategic design consultation on
part of our five-year DEI strategy, in FY21 topics such as inclusive communication,
we piloted two education programs for our inclusive sponsorship, cultural appreciation
Vice Presidents and our NikeUNITED and versus cultural appropriation, and inclusive
ConverseUNITED Network Leaders. The and accessible design. For our Firstline
programs, both rich in dialogue through distribution and manufacturing teams
facilitation, generated an appetite for even around the globe, we look to expand our
deeper learning around DEI. Leveraging comprehensive cross-cultural curriculum
the feedback from these two programs, we programming, designed for teammates
decided to evolve how our Vice Presidents in non-traditional work environments to
are certified and receive their training. To advance their DEI acumen and Inclusive
renew our commitment, in FY23, we will Leadership skills. The ongoing program has
launch Inclusive Leadership education focused on race and the impact of culture
certification within our ongoing Vice on our personal and work relationships in
President leadership training, designed the U.S., Singapore and China. This year, we
for all NIKE executives across the globe. hope to gain a deeper level of understanding
Additionally, we began development of a for our teammates and their experiences in
new custom unconscious bias awareness Vietnam and Indonesia.
training that will be rolled out to all
employees, with the goal of 96% completion.
Disability inclusion is an area in which we
are also exploring new and innovative ways
to make content more accessible to our
employees with disabilities.
Education & Professional Development
People
$ invested on professional FY21 FY22
development 1.1 9.0
X X
$85,000 $685,475
Quantitative Target
2x investments focused on professional
development for racial and ethnic minorities
in the U.S. and women globally
Our investment in professional development
remains a key component of our talent
strategy. We are investing in the development
of racial and ethnic minorities in the U.S.
and women globally at all levels to drive
career mobility, advancement and retention.
Our mentorship program, which was
launched in June 2021, has had two full
cohorts complete the nine-month program
while maintaining a 98% satisfaction rate
among participants. Given the success of
the program in the corporate environment,
we are partnering with our Firstline teams
to modify the program, with an aim to pilot
in FY23. Additionally, we have invested in a
technology platform to facilitate matching
of mentorship pairs.
2025 Target
2
X
$152,000
FY20 Baseline ($76,000)
Education & Professional Development
People
As part of our opt-in Focused Leadership We also began researching vendors for increasing the available resources for NIKE’s
Development program we expanded targeted leadership development for Native internal communities. The curriculum aligned
two external relationships with McKinsey American and Indigenous leaders with plans with Leadership Defined behaviors and key
& Company Executive Leadership and to launch a new program in FY23 for this career moments during NIKE’s fiscal year to
Leadership Education for Asian Pacifics specific demographic. We are partnering prepare teammates for career conversations
(LEAP). Through our work with McKinsey, with CultureAlly and American Indigenous and planning. We had over 2,000 attendees
we have had 40 participants complete the Business Leaders (AIBL), along with the over the course of 11 months, with an
Black, Asian and Hispanic Management NikeUNITED Networks’ Native American 85% satisfaction rate overall.
Accelerators programs and 12 complete the Network leadership team to design and
McKinsey & Company Executive Leadership create this new program. Finally, we are investing in professional
Program. Across all of our associations we development of potential talent outside of
have had over 200 underrepresented leaders We also launched a monthly career NIKE through our partnerships with The Asian
throughout the enterprise participate in development series for the NikeUNITED American Foundation (TAAF), Management
leadership development opportunities with and ConverseUNITED Networks to Leadership for Tomorrow and OneTen. NIKE
the goal to grow future executive leaders. further amplify the network membership has a four-year community grant agreement
experience and increase resourcing for with TAAF, worth $5 million – $1 million per
We continue to enhance and expand our our internal communities at NIKE. This is year over five years (2020–2025). In FY22
external relationships in efforts to offer an opt-in, career development series for we committed to OneTen, whose mission
world-class programming designed to meet network members and leadership teams is to hire, promote and advance one million
the changing needs of our talent. In FY22 we to advance their suite of skills and increase Black individuals without four-year degrees
added a new senior development program their personal growth, in conjunction into family-sustaining careers over the next
in conjunction with our partner CNEXT, and with external organizations like Bleeker, 10 years. We are focused on developing a
began building a custom leadership program Out Leadership, Hispanic Association on strategy to connect with our talent acquisition
for executive leadership, which we aim to roll Corporate Responsibility and Workplace team and identify key roles that fit OneTen
out in FY23. Change. Topics included goal setting, eligibility, with the goal of hiring in FY23.
storytelling, the art of negotiation and
conflict resolution, and the series amplified
the network membership experience through
Diversity, Equity
and Inclusion
Leadership
Aceeleration
Academy
Business Diversity & Inclusion
People
$ spent on
diverse suppliers
2025 Target (Cumulative)
$1
Quantitative Target
B
$1 billion cumulative spend
on diverse suppliers
$777
FY22
M
$495
M
Business Diversity & Inclusion (BDI) is more
People Profile
than the right thing to do; it delivers strategic
business results. Suppliers are players on
our team and a diverse team is a winning
team. During FY22, NIKE increased supplier
access, drove strategy awareness across
the enterprise and expanded programs to
fuel the development of diverse suppliers.
Abigail Schleichkorn
Our approach to business growth is
fueled by the belief that diversity – in all its Global Business Diversity
forms – fosters creativity and accelerates
& Inclusion Program
innovation. We know that leveraging
Operations Lead
different perspectives, experiences and
backgrounds generates unique ideas and
makes our value chain stronger. To enable
“A s a graduate of a women’s college and
this work, we will continue to build a roster
a collegiate athlete*, my life goal has
of suppliers who can actively support our
always been to use the power that sport
business requirements, while also sharing
has to bring people together to change
FY21
our commitment to DEI.
the world. I feel grateful that I have
$282
the opportunity to create meaningful M
impact in the lives of diverse business
owners by giving them insights to
build sustained business relationships
with NIKE.”
Business Diversity & Inclusion
People
Our strategy is based on three − Increased our outreach to diverse Our commitment to supplier diversity was
critical elements: suppliers by collaborating with supplier demonstrated across the organization in
diversity councils to host “How to Do FY22, including, for example:
1 Drive accessibility and development – Business with NIKE” webinars and
expand visibility to diverse suppliers attending the National Minority Supplier − We worked with a minority-owned training
and build capabilities through coaching Development Council Conference & and consulting company to facilitate
and training Exchange in New Orleans. a diverse supplier training program,
The Academy.
2 Fuel demand – engage and educate
− Launched an internal training campaign
our leaders and buyers to proactively
to educate our sourcing professionals − To support more minority-owned
support BDI efforts
on how to embed BDI principles into businesses, NIKE encourages our
their process. suppliers to also engage with their diverse
3 Establish internal structure – design
supplier network. An example of this
processes, tools and metrics to embed
To facilitate global expansion into approach is the LeBron James “Father
BDI in all procurement decisions
EMEA, NIKE: Time” video project, where 91% of the
subcontractors hired were minority-
To accelerate progress toward our strategic − Partnered with WEConnect International owned businesses, demonstrating the
goals, NIKE: and the Minority Supplier Development impact that can be made with intentional
United Kingdom to help certify diverse sourcing.
− Invited over 30,000 diverse suppliers suppliers in the region.
from North America to apply for Year Executing on NIKE’s strategy to increase
1 of the Business Diversity Academy, − Worked with other corporations and our diverse supplier base and educate our
dramatically scaling the program from supplier diversity counterparts in EMEA buyers resulted in a delivery of $777 million
six companies to over 75. This program to determine best practices and support cumulative spend on diverse suppliers.
is designed to accelerate the capabilities diverse businesses across the countries
of diverse suppliers so that they improve and regions.
their ability to win new business with NIKE
and other Fortune 500 companies. The − Built the foundation of the BDI program
program helps address the challenges in the region by integrating the
many diverse suppliers face in building strategy into requests for proposals,
their business, gaining access to new tracking diverse spend and educating
opportunities, and presenting themselves business stakeholders.
to corporations. Participants in the
Business Diversity Academy are often
located in economically disadvantaged
communities where the economic
impact is felt far beyond those who
complete the program and extends into
their communities where they employ
diverse workforces.
Health & Safety
People
% of suppliers with level 3 FY21 FY22
health & safety maturity33 27 46
% %
2025 Target
100
%
Quantitative Target
100% of strategic suppliers are building
world-class, safe and healthy workplaces
for the people making our product
In line with the International Labour We focus on fostering a culture of health
Organization’s (ILO) recently amended and safety by having leaders and workers
Declaration on Fundamental Principles collaborate to adopt, refine and standardize
and Rights at Work, NIKE believes in the industry-leading safety management
fundamental right of the protection of life and systems and policies and develop education,
health in the workplace for all people. This is training, certification programs and safety
a key component of our responsible supply leadership capabilities.
chain strategy, which is why we have an
expectation that suppliers provide safe and
healthy workplaces for all workers.
33 Healthy and safe workplaces: Supplier must reach level 3 safety and health maturity on Culture of Safety Maturity Assessment (COSMA).
Health & Safety
People
ENGAGING AND Strong technical skills combined with
business and soft skills equip facility
ACTIVATING THE health and safety personnel with the
skills they need to improve safety
WORKFORCE performance and influence and drive
change. In order to support this, we have
developed programs to upskill individuals
We believe that a skilled and capable and improve organizational capabilities,
workforce is a critical enabler to achieve which foster peer-to-peer and peer-to-
this target. As we continue to develop new manager conversations about relevant
products and innovate new materials, we health and safety issues within the facility
also create new manufacturing processes and enable workers to be more engaged
and adjust workplace safety practices to and actively involved.
proactively manage new risks. As a part
of this, health and safety professionals Since we set this target in FY20 and started
must demonstrate a broad range of skills measuring impact, we have already seen
and competencies to not only effectively substantial improvements in the rate of
manage risk and compliance programs, supplier lost time injuries per worker. We
but also foster a culture of health and analyzed 6.7 billion hours worked from the
safety in their facilities. beginning of FY20 through the end of FY22
and saw a 47% reduction in Lost Time Injury
Rates (LTIR) during this time period. By FY22,
all in-scope factories were implementing
the program, and LTIR stabilized
throughout the fiscal year.
Personal protective
equipment is
essential for Pham
Thi Thuy Van’s
work in a materials-
testing lab at Feng
Tay Vietnam.
Health & Safety
People
WORKPLACE IOSH COMPETENCY OCCUPATIONAL
FACILITATOR FRAMEWORK HEALTH AND
ON FIRE SAFETY HYGIENE
A well-rounded Occupational Safety and
Health (OSH) team has been identified as a
Fire prevention and action planning during key enabler to continually drive health and When new materials and manufacturing
emergency situations continue to be areas safety initiatives that result in reductions processes are introduced in our supply
of focus. To improve fire safety practices in incidents, non-compliances and overall chain, it’s a priority for us to anticipate,
among workers and managers, we negative impacts to the workforce. recognize, evaluate and control potential
implemented a facilitator program, which workplace hazards that may arise and
guides workers, managers and leaders In FY22, we selected the IOSH competency cause sickness or impaired health. NIKE
on having peer-to-peer conversations on framework as the tool to develop our developed an Industrial Hygiene Playbook
fire safety and other topics. This program internal NIKE Health and Safety team as that guides in-scope suppliers on how to
started as a collaboration between the Fair well as suppliers’ teams. It is a standardized implement occupational health programs,
Labor Association (FLA) and the Institution assessment process that gives the policies and procedures to improve
of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH). OSH professionals an opportunity to workplace conditions.
Since 2015, over 96 Tier 1 finished goods determine their current skill level with
suppliers have implemented the Workplace respect to technical, behavioral and Since the launch of the playbook at the
Safety Facilitator program and trained nearly core competencies. Then it gives them end of FY22, 10 factory-based health and
375,000 workers on fire safety by the end a personalized development track that safety professionals have completed the
of FY22. focuses on enhancing either their technical Fundamentals of Industrial Hygiene training
knowledge, their business acumen or their course offered by the Phylmar Academy
interpersonal skills. or an equivalent program. Additionally, 19
have completed more advanced courses
In FY23, our NIKE internal teams will on industrial hygiene. We plan to continue
go through the framework. Then, we to build out these courses in FY23.
plan to scale the framework to strategic
supplier facilities.
A teammate checks
fire safety equipment
at Shenzhou’s
Worldon apparel
factory in Vietnam.
Health & Safety
People
MACHINE SAFETY ROAD AND 1 Workers are empowered to make
decisions and act to avoid and/
CERTIFICATIONS COMMUTER SAFETY or mitigate known risk factors
when commuting.
2 Workers have access to and use safe
Another health and safety priority is helping After beginning discussions in FY21
transport alternatives when commuting
improve suppliers’ ability to operate and with the ILO’s Vision Zero Fund (VZF), a
to and from work and are insured in
maintain modern and automated machinery. G7-funded initiative focused on eliminating
case of accidents.
As part of our Code Leadership Standards severe or fatal work-related accidents,
(CLS) suppliers are required to implement injuries and diseases in global supply
3 Road infrastructure adjustments
machine management programs and track chains, we expanded our relationship and
are made and assistance services that
their performance toward international collaboration in FY22 to reduce road and
mitigate road safety risks of commuters
machine safety standards. Working closely commuter accidents among workers in our
are available.
with Pilz, an internationally recognized safety supply chain.
expert, we provide advanced machine safety 4 National legislation is aligned with
training and certification for suppliers. Since VZF and NIKE developed of a Theory of international best practice and is
FY18, 253 machine safety practitioners Change (TOC) framework on road safety, effectively enforced.
have completed the Pilz training course, using ILO-collected feedback from workers,
with 79 people designated as Certified employers, governments and ILO specialists We seek to continue our relationship with
Machinery Safety Experts, and have run from a number of countries. The framework VZF in FY23 and will pilot the TOC road
safety checks on 63% of in-scope machines identified the following four key outcomes for safety framework in a select country,
(over 49,000 machines), which include improving commuting safety for workers in focusing on the first two outcomes. The
the following measures: 1) machine safety the garment and footwear sectors: aim is to develop a scalable tool that can
risk assessments, 2) job hazards analysis, be deployed in other countries.
3) risk-reduction controls, 4) safety work
instructions and 5) training operators and
maintenance staff on the work instructions.
Teams at Dong Jin
Textile in Indonesia
operate state-of-
the-art knitting
machines.
Health & Safety
People
DEVELOP SAFETY The SSC is a group of suppliers’ SET AGGRESSIVE facilities through their journey to develop
enterprise-level representatives committed mature safety cultures and systems. At the
LEADERSHIP to innovating and scaling sustainability TARGETS AND REPORT end of FY22, 292 factory personnel, third-
programs to enhance their operational party consultants and NIKE internal staff
AND GOVERNANCE performance and mitigate risk while sharing PERFORMANCE had completed the online training and were
out best practices in the hopes of elevating able to self-evaluate their health and safety
worker safety across the sector. At the culture maturity using standard methodology
We believe effective leaders set the ethical end of FY22, there were 11 suppliers in We developed our Culture of Safety and metrics.
tone for the company, hold themselves the SSC. The SSC workstreams, including Maturity Assessment (CoSMA) in 2017
accountable for safety performance, drive transformational leadership in health and to assist suppliers in measuring their While working closely with third-party
safer behaviors at work and motivate their safety, come to life through the supplier progress. The tool, our maturity roadmap consultants, 46% of our in-scope suppliers
colleagues to do the same. group leadership. The program is aimed and assessment methodology are based (51 suppliers) have self-assessed their
at enterprise-level leaders and governing on Professor Patrick Hudson’s research on culture and have met our threshold for
With IOSH, we have successfully piloted bodies that are accountable for the strategic Safety Cultural Maturity. When we piloted building safe and healthy workplaces, with
an enterprise-level program with our direction and oversight of health and safety this initiative at eight different manufacturing mature management systems now covering
largest supplier groups to help their in their organization. The program enables facilities with over four million working hours, more than 439,000 workers in our supply
company leaders evaluate and improve the these leaders to gain confidence and better we found that supplier lines where the health chain. This data has been validated by
effectiveness of existing safety governance understand the key elements of effective and safety systems were piloted had 85% feedback from workers through a worker
structure and safety leadership. Seven corporate health and safety governance, lower injury and illness rates compared voice platform. We have implemented a
supplier groups representing 72 factories their strategic strengths and areas where to traditional manufacturing lines34. new method to collect worker voice through
and more than 445,000 workers have they can improve. MicroBenefits’ data platform and Safemap’s
completed the program by the end of FY22. The maturity roadmap, assessment safety perception survey questions.
We plan to scale to the supplier groups in the methodology and CoSMA tool are offered to
Supplier Sustainability Council (SSC) in FY23 suppliers through a third-party online training
and to the remaining in-scope supplier platform hosted by the Phylmar Academy.
groups by 2025. In FY22, we added a companion guide, the
Culture of Safety Playbook, to further assist
34 https://www.hbs.edu/faculty/Pages/item.aspx?num=55877
Gender Equity
People
% of suppliers achieving FY21 FY22
mature gender 0 2
equitable capability37 % %
Target
100
%
Quantitative Target
100% of strategic suppliers are increasing
access to career opportunities and upward
mobility for women employed in their facilities
Our Purpose is to move the world forward Our multi-pronged approach starts with
through the power of sport and help engaging suppliers to help them build strong
create a level playing field for all. And we capabilities that we know enable cultures
know that operating a responsible and that promote and enable equity and will
resilient supply chain includes enabling help result in an increase in representation
access to career opportunities and upward of women in leadership and skilled roles.
mobility for women. In our manufacturing In order to achieve this goal, we continue
supply chain, women make up over 70% to leverage partnerships with global
of the total workforce and 80% of the gender experts, including long-standing
finished goods production workforce. relationships with the International Center
Yet female representation decreases with for Research on Women (ICRW) and the
the movement into leadership positions. International Finance Corporation (IFC).
We aspire toward a level playing field by
focusing on creating career opportunities
and upward mobility for women, because
we know diverse organizations are more
resilient, financially outperform their
non-diverse peers,35,36 and more
effectively attract and retain talent.
35 h ttps://www.mckinsey.com/featured-insights/sustainable-inclusive-growth/chart-of-the-day/most-diverse-companies-now-more-likely-than-ever-to-outperform-financially
36 h ttps://www.usaid.gov/engendering-industries/gender-equality-guides/business-case
37 This target baselined in FY21 as the tools to measure didn’t exist when the target period started. While none of the strategic suppliers reached a mature level
of gender equity in FY21, more than 95% of suppliers met our FY21 milestone to deploy and validate the Gender Equity Diagnostic Tool, develop an action
plan and implement actions.
Gender Equity
People
MEASUREMENT After setting this target, we worked with SUPPORT FOR
strategic suppliers to lay the foundation
AND OUTCOMES by helping build an understanding of the WORKING PARENTS
importance of gender equity, with the
acknowledgment that every organization is
To meet this target, suppliers must starting from a different point on the gender The need to support working parents has
implement strong policies and practices that equity journey. been amplified through the COVID-19
incorporate gender equity. We measure this pandemic and is becoming increasingly top
target by validating supplier performance on In FY21, the first year of our five-year of mind for all employers worldwide. Suppliers
the Gender Equity Self-Diagnostic Tool (SDT), target, our in-scope suppliers deployed who now have a strong foundation and
which analyzes 10 domains of gender equity and validated the SDT assessment, which understanding of gender equitable practices
in areas from how organizations embed an helped many of them to identify the stronger were able to focus on understanding the
equity lens into their recruitment and hiring elements in their policies and practices, root causes of areas of concern for working
practices to how they support and care for along with areas needing improvement. parents. These included childcare and
working parents in their workforce. This tool helped suppliers think about gender balancing work and family responsibilities.
equity as core to their business strategy and As a result, suppliers have increased flexibility
With the launch of our gender equity target in operations and not as a separate, standalone where they can, from adjusting transportation
FY20, we worked in collaboration with ICRW women’s empowerment program. times to adapting childcare policies such as
to build the SDT to measure gender equity increased parental leave.
in the footwear and apparel manufacturing In FY22, suppliers completed the SDT for
industry at the organizational level. After the second year. Overall, we saw an increase
consulting with industry experts, as well of 9% in their ratings on the tool globally.
as a representative group of suppliers, we The SDT measured an increase in almost
were able to help ground the tool in real-life every domain, with the biggest gains in
experience. With this input, ICRW was able to suppliers advancing internal metrics and
work with gender experts to bring this work key performance indicators to understand
to life. Anyone can access the tool on ICRW’s gender equity and in advancing policies
website, along with supporting materials to and practices to support working parents.
help those in the industry, including suppliers, Over half of our in-scope factories began
build robust gender equity capabilities. collecting data on unplanned absenteeism
or turnover through a gender lens, allowing
them to understand what factors help
employees feel better supported.
With programs
focused on
movement and
play, Feng Tay has
provided childcare
for thousands of
working parents at
factories in Vietnam
since 2008.
Gender Equity
People
98 To support this, we worked with IFC to share CAPABILITY Beyond NIKE’s supply chain, we also kicked
research and educate suppliers on the off a collaboration, led by ICRW, with six
most effective policies to attract and retain BUILDING other like-minded brands in the footwear and
working parents. This included case studies apparel industry and beyond, to co-create a
% from three suppliers in which Pou Chen gender-focused worker voice tool, which will
(Vietnam) saw increased productivity worth One of the ways we continue this progress be piloted in FY23. This tool is an industry
$470,000 each year, and TKG TAEKWANG and help suppliers advance gender equity is first and is designed to complement our
(Vietnam) experienced reduced absenteeism by offering capability building training. To this Engagement and Wellbeing (EWB) worker
which helped save $945,000 annually. end, we worked with IFC to host a five-part survey. It will allow us to more accurately
of in-scope suppliers set meaningful MAS (Sri Lanka) launched a daycare center training series with global suppliers – helping triangulate with the SDT results to provide
providing valuable support for working suppliers build foundational gender equity a full picture of gender equity in facilities.
representation targets
parents and saw sick leave absenteeism knowledge as well as providing targeted and By working with other large brands, we are
drop by 9%. actionable guidance on how to set meaningful able to help drive change at scale across our
and actionable representation targets. These industry and beyond, as well as learn and
In FY22, the first of our supplier facilities sessions were attended by an average of 160 share best practices with our peers.
were deemed to have gender equitable participants representing facilities across
policies and practices, meeting the all strategic suppliers. In early FY23, the
threshold for our 2025 target. These remaining sessions will focus on gender-
facilities showed a deep commitment to inclusive recruitment and promotion, care
measuring and understanding their current and support for working parents and creating
state and displayed strong cross-functional harassment-free environments, which are all
prioritization of implementing key actions key areas of interest requested by suppliers.
identified in the SDT. The impacts are
already evident, with much stronger return IFC also offered direct bespoke support to
rates post-holiday, where we often see high interested suppliers. This included several
rates of attrition, and lower turnover and facilities who will complete EDGE Gender
unplanned absenteeism rates compared to Certification, a leading global assessment
other factories. We are excited to continue methodology and business certification
these efforts and scale the learnings from standard for gender and intersectional equity.
our initial success in the coming years.
Gender Equity
People
REPRESENTATION Supplier workforce data analysis indicates
men advancing into the first rung of
leadership at over three times the rate
We believe that organizations need to of women. In response, the Women’s
have strong equitable policies and practices Leadership Accelerator pilot program in
in place to help advance more women Vietnam was implemented in partnership
into leadership roles and set women with IFC and local research organization
up for success. We also recognize that Mekong Development Research Institute,
representation looks different for with a focus on high-potential female
every organization. employees in strategic suppliers’ facilities
in Vietnam to strengthen women’s career
In FY22, IFC trained suppliers on how to advancement. This disparity at the initial
set meaningful representation targets. entry to leadership roles exacerbates the
From there, 98% of in-scope suppliers set underrepresentation of women in leadership
meaningful representation targets after at all levels. In order to help facilities close
looking at their own business priorities this gap, we are helping support female
and workforce demographics through a candidates for leadership roles through
gender lens, and submitted personalized the Women’s Leadership Accelerator pilot
representation targets focused on increasing program. This program, along with aligned
career opportunities and upward mobility for factory self-set representation targets, has
women employed in their facilities. brought meaningful input for leadership.
The self-set targets fall into three focus areas: Three strategic suppliers, Huali, TKG
increasing the representation of women in TAEKWANG and Ramatex, joined us to
initial levels of management, senior leadership serve as a supplier steering committee for
and technical roles. Within technical roles, we the pilot program. Accelerator participants
have seen an uptick in interest of increasing were nominated by their factory leadership
the representation of female engineers to participate in the six-month pilot to learn
specifically. We have seen suppliers set both hard and soft skills, as well as to create
meaningful targets in areas that make a network with other women. The program
sense for the shape of their business kicked off in March with over 50 women
and the demographic contexts they are representing 16 different supplier groups
working within instead of deploying a who collectively employ over 380,000 people
Tra Lam Thao
one-size-fits-all approach. in the country in facilities that supply NIKE (left) and Tran Vu
product. The pilot concluded in September Bich Hang (right)
help lead a team of
2022, and we are now measuring its impact
more than 10,000
and scaling in areas where it can provide the
workers, 60% of
most benefit.
whom are women,
at Feng Tay’s Dona
Pacific factory
in Vietnam.
Worker Engagement
People
% strategic suppliers FY21 FY22
measuring and 0 21
improving engagement38 % %
2025 Target
100
%
Quantitative Target
100% of strategic suppliers are measuring
and improving worker engagement
Another key aspect of operating a NIKE’s EWB program aims to drive
responsible and resilient supply chain is employee engagement and well-being as
investing in suppliers who engage and value a supplier-owned model to increase facility
their workforce. Higher engagement leads performance, including through key metrics
to a more efficient, agile and committed such as higher productivity and decreased
workforce, which results in beneficial turnover. This program will help enable NIKE
outcomes for both workers and the to work with suppliers that are committed
organization. Not only are engaged workers to improving the lives of the people making
more likely to feel physically and mentally our product.
secure – they are also more likely to actively
and positively contribute to their work. We begin by measuring worker experience,
then support suppliers in developing and
embedding the capabilities needed to
respond and improve these experiences.
38 Criteria for measuring and improving engagement must be met for the factory to count toward the target KPI of measuring and improving. While most
suppliers have started to measure worker voice in their facilities, none have advanced to the next phase, which involves responding to and improving
worker experience. The target baselined in FY21 and wasn’t measured in FY20.
Worker Engagement
People
EWB SURVEY Throughout the year, we monitor supplier
target progress and conduct regular check-
ins to encourage continued commitment
NIKE developed the EWB Survey, a to the target and enable suppliers to share
comprehensive and anonymous tool that challenges. Based off these conversations,
helps capture the voice of workers across the NIKE team provides targeted support
several experience categories. as needed.
Once a supplier has deployed the EWB In FY22, 24 in-scope facilities measured
Survey, we have a suite of tools and supports, and improved engagement. There is a
such as the EWB Action Planning Guide, natural journey in a supplier building their
to help suppliers develop and implement a capabilities in measuring worker voice prior
process for converting survey insights from to being able to convert insights into action
workers into action and embedding practices and embedding new practices in overall
into their human resource management systems to drive sustained improvement.
(HRM) systems.
We continue to tap into survey insights
In FY22, 89 of NIKE’s strategic suppliers to help prioritize and develop a more
deployed the EWB Survey, exceeding data-driven approach. For example, the
our expectation of 87 strategic suppliers. top-scoring questions across geographies
Since 2017, we have been scaling the EWB and demographic groups in FY22 were
Survey to reach more suppliers. Since that around social connection, getting input
scaling began, the EWB Survey has reached from employees and safety awareness.
106 unique factories representing around We also share common trends with suppliers
580,000 workers across 15 countries. and work to make sure these areas are
prioritized. Suppliers can then begin to
Recognizing that no two suppliers are the further understand the root causes of any
same or at the same point in their employee issues and build capabilities to best address
engagement journeys, we work to meet them them as we progress toward 2025.
where they are and actively support building
capabilities that increase engagement.
Lilis Komala
operates a cutting
machine at a Chang
Shin footwear
facility in Indonesia,
where workers now
have access to HR
systems and training
via mobile app.
Worker Engagement
People
INCREASING We continue to have strong relationships
with organizations like MicroBenefits,
ENGAGEMENT Labor Solutions and Ulula, which provide
not only the ability for facilities to digitally
deploy the survey, but also a broader
In FY22, we introduced the second phase suite of services connecting workers and
of the target, providing a clear methodology management. For many suppliers, their
for suppliers to implement the capabilities employee engagement strategy involves
needed to improve engagement with their adopting solutions from these organizations,
workforce in a consistent, scalable manner. such as worker voice tools that are available
Twenty-four in-scope facilities measured on mobile devices and/or made available
and improved engagement. via tablets at convenient and private kiosks
in the facility. These solutions have a
We seek to drive supplier-led measurement variety of capabilities such as confidential,
of worker voice. NIKE helps enable anonymized grievance mechanisms, training
a standardized approach through platforms and employee portals with access
our guidelines and best practices in to things such as wage visibility and pay
implementing worker voice tools. We have stubs, hours and benefits. As we look at
developed for survey vendors an action the journey of progression, suppliers are
planning guide to drive supplier ownership increasingly identifying ways to leverage
and accountability. these types of digital solutions to increase
their engagement with workers on a
daily basis.
Workers at Feng Tay
Vietnam have access
to sport facilities to
promote engagement
and wellbeing.
Additional Priority Area: Supplier Compensation
People
Additional Priority Area:
Supplier Compensation
Starting in 2015, we began working with Aligning with the Fair Labor Association’s
strategic suppliers to develop compensation (FLA) definition of a fair wage, we expect
and benefit models as a part of their overall suppliers to pay a wage that progressively
strategic HRM systems. These systems meets workers’ basic needs, including
include integrated IT systems, benchmarking some discretionary income. We share
with the local labor market, aligning our standards and expectations with
incentives and incorporating feedback from suppliers in our Code of Conduct and Code
workers though worker voice platforms. Leadership Standards (CLS). Strategic and
Three of the 21 questions in our EWB Survey fair compensation is a key priority for our
focus on workers’ experiences around pay. responsible supply chain because it not only
Through our EWB program, we support supports workers’ livelihoods, but to also
our suppliers on building capabilities and help suppliers remain a competitive employer
converting insights from our EWB Survey of choice in local labor markets by attracting,
into actions. retaining and developing talent.
Operator Yanti
prepares fabric for
cutting at a Pratama
footwear facility
in Indonesia.
Supplier Compensation
People
GETTING BETTER Having credible third-party benchmarks is
critical to understanding wage gaps. With
VISIBILITY INTO this in mind, we have provided support
to Anker Research Institute (ARI) as they
WAGES develop their next living wage benchmark
in Indonesia, which will be published
later this year on the Global Living Wage
We have continued to build better wage Coalition (GLWC) website. ARI also has
visibility year-over-year, and we continue a thorough and detailed methodology,
to partner with the FLA in this effort. including extensive on-the-ground research
This is our third year of collecting robust that assess cost of living to determine an
and standardized wage data across accurate benchmark. We plan to use GLWC
a representative sample of our supply in other regions where it is available. This
chain based on the FLA’s methodology effort will help us have approximately 80%
and guidance. We collect this data of strategic suppliers in all regions compare
alongside other key HR and workforce key their wages against an updated and more
performance indicators to allow us to have a credible living wage as part of their overall
complete and thorough picture. In addition, benchmarking. We plan to supplement
we compare this data to various benchmarks this data with other benchmarks where
including minimum wages, national poverty there are gaps or when more localized,
lines and living wage benchmarks. It’s accurate or up-to-date data is available from
important to us that we have a credible, other sources.
robust and accurate methodology for
measuring wages.
NIKE and Shenzhou
teammates work
together in a
facility dedicated
to manufacturing
Flyknit, one of our
most sustainable
innovations.
Supplier Compensation
People
RESPONSIBLE Better Buying also continues to be an LOOKING AHEAD
important partner for us and provides
PURCHASING critical, anonymized input from suppliers
on our purchasing practices. We have been As we look to the future, we will continue to
PRACTICES participating in the Better Buying survey improve our data governance in collecting
since 2018 and just received our most recent meaningful and actionable wage data and
results back, in which we improved our identifying ways to use this information in
Another key element of our wage strategy total score since last year, increased our capability building and program focus. We
is our responsible purchasing practices. participation rate to above 50% and scored will also continue to work with GLWC and
We are not only driving compliance with above the industry average overall. others on expanding and updating robust
the CLS with suppliers, but also looking wage benchmarks (including living wage,
internally at how our business practices We regularly review our purchasing where available), and we will continue to use
impact those who make our product. practices to make sure they both this information where available to identify
We do this in several ways and continue address marketplace demands and do not gaps and build capabilities by evolving our
to adapt as we learn more from suppliers adversely impact compliance with our CLS. programs and policies.
and the industry to continue to steward For example, during COVID-19 we paid in
and implement best practices. full for finished product from all suppliers
globally, while honoring previously agreed
We have long-standing partnerships with payment terms for product in production.
most of the Tier 1 finished goods suppliers. In the case of canceled orders, our policy
Over 90% of NIKE footwear and apparel is with suppliers is, and has been, that NIKE
made by factory groups that we have worked will pay the appropriate amount of the order,
with for over 15 years. To enable suppliers to depending on the stage of production as
have time to plan and act responsibly with communicated by supplier, to enable the
workforce decisions, we meet with suppliers supplier to recover costs associated with
on at least a quarterly basis to discuss the canceled order.
current and future business forecasts.
Working across our Sourcing, Costing, and
Government and Public Affairs teams, we
help give suppliers visibility into areas for
improvement and collectively work together
to address the root cause of issues.
Feng Tay teammate
Pham Thi Thu
Huyen on the Air
Force 1 production
line at a facility
in Vietnam.
Code of Conduct
People
%% Ccoommpplliiaannccee wwi/t h %% Mmeeaassuurreedd ooff anticipated
fFoouunnddaattioionnaal le Exxppeecctatatitoionnss taonttaicl ispcaotpede total scope
FFYY2211 FFYY2222 FFYY2211 FFYY2222
8855 X60X 7799 X97X
%% %% %% %%
Quantitative Target T2a0r2g5e Ttarget T2a0r2g5e Ttarget
110000 110000
100% of facilities in our extended supply chain
%% %%
meet NIKE’s foundational labor, health, safety
and environmental standards, demonstrating
respect for the rights of their workers and
communities where they operate
At NIKE, we believe a world-class When we set this target in FY20,
responsible supply chain is grounded in we launched the most ambitious and
standards that demonstrate respect for the accelerated expansion of our compliance
environment, the people who make and program to date – updating our Code of
move our product, and the principles of a Conduct and CLS in FY21 to continue
healthy and safe workplace. With that in to align with international standards, our
mind, we build long-term relationships with strategic priorities and risk mitigation
suppliers who share our commitment to within our supply chain.
making products more responsibly.
We also committed to transitioning from
We expect that all of the in-scope suppliers using proprietary tools to industry tools,
and third-party logistics providers we enabling verified data sharing across
work with meet or exceed our foundational the industry to increase transparency.
labor, health, safety and environmental This transition reduces repetitive audits,
expectations, which we share with giving suppliers the opportunity to free
them in our Code of Conduct and Code up resources that they can, in turn, deploy
Leadership Standards (CLS). toward programs that support workers
and the environment.
Code of Conduct
People
% compliance with
We assess Foundational Expectations
Foundational Expectations
through verified Social & Labor Convergence
Program (SLCP) assessments, Higg
FY20 FY22
Facility Environmental Module (Higg FEM)
assessments and Zero Discharge of
FY20 target scope (T1 & 94% 77%
Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) wastewater
high visibility39 T2)
testing. At the end of FY22, 97% of facilities
have used at least one industry tool and the
FY25 target scope NA 12%
remaining facilities are currently scheduled
expansion (additional T2,
to transition in FY23 based on industry
DCs & Air MI)
tool availability.
In FY21, we also expanded the scope of this Our material suppliers, Air MI facilities and
target. We added additional Tier 2 material distribution centers who are being assessed
suppliers representing approximately 90% for Foundational Expectations for the first
of total footwear upper materials and apparel time are just starting on their journey. We
textile production, in-scope distribution anticipate that as facilities adapt to the
centers representing at least 80% of volume new tools and processes, they will learn
and our NIKE owned and operated Air MI quickly as they take advantage of
facilities. We publicly disclose Tier 1 finished targeted remediation and capability
goods and Tier 2 material supplier facilities building programs described in more
on the NIKE Manufacturing Map. detail below. We are already seeing some
improvement as facilities complete their
As a result of this expanded scope, we are second assessments.
seeing a dip in the compliance rate during this
transition period. As expected, our finished
goods and material suppliers who have been
a part of our audit programs – some for more
than 20 years – are adjusting to the switch
of audit tool, assessment process and our
elevated Code expectations.
A forklift operator at
a Far Eastern textile
facility in Vietnam,
which is now in
scope as a Tier 2
materials supplier
for our foundational
labor, health, safety,
and environmental
39 Suppliers manufacturing branded licensed products or branded
expectations target. footwear uppers and branded outsoles.
Code of Conduct
People
DRIVING For Tier 1 finished goods suppliers’ who dedicated support to follow up on plans 97
are not meeting Foundational Expectations that aim to improve suppliers’ compliance
IMPROVEMENT on any industry tool, the program focuses management systems. We expect to see
on capability building to help address the more Tier 2 suppliers successfully meet
issues impacting the supplier rating. Since our Foundational Expectation as they %
We are applying what we have learned these suppliers are used to being assessed continue to set their foundations and build
over the last 50 years building long-term for compliance, the overall goal is to confirm compliance management systems. As of the
relationships with suppliers who share that all non-compliances are remediated in end of FY22, 63 facilities were enrolled in this
our commitment to making and moving a sustained manner. This program provides remediation program.
products more responsibly. In FY22, we an opportunity for suppliers to meet our of facilities have been measured
strengthened existing partnerships with Foundational Expectations in between We also created a third-party-facilitated
(up from 79% in FY21 and 66%
third-party experts who help suppliers industry assessments. By the end of FY22, remediation program targeting the needs
in FY20)
address the root causes of non-compliance 37 facilities were enrolled in the program, of distribution centers. In-scope distribution
though remediation and training programs. and we expect them to successfully centers take part in a third-party-facilitated,
Our remediation strategy leverages a remediate findings in FY23. interactive remediation program that guides
compliance management systems approach them through the process of root cause
to diagnose problems, enable critical For Tier 2 material suppliers, who are likely analysis and the development of sustainable
thinking and drive facility ownership. less used to being assessed for compliance, improvement plans for each finding. Through
we worked with a third party to develop a this four-month engagement, distribution
As a part of this strategy, we created program to provide trainings and dedicated centers demonstrated improvements on
three third-party remediation programs coaching to build the capabilities unique or addressed 80% of the findings.
targeting the unique needs of suppliers. to their needs. The program is designed
The remediation programs are geared to help set the foundation of suppliers’ We are also going beyond these tailored
toward building knowledge and capabilities compliance management systems and remediation programs to find opportunities
while recognizing that suppliers have enable issue remediation as the result. to build capabilities across the supply chain
different levels of experience with these Many Tier 2 material suppliers have more that cover areas where we see trends in
types of assessments. than one non-compliance because they non-compliance. For example, in chemical
weren’t accustomed to these assessments, management, where we continue to raise
and we expect them to take more than a the bar on our requirements suppliers are
year to build the capabilities to remediate encouraged to engage with the ZDHC
their non-compliances and meet our Foundation Supplier to Zero program,
Foundational Expectations. Our remediation which brings to life the ZDHC ethos and
program includes both trainings and supports our industry tool approach.
Code of Conduct
People
Sustainable Manufacturing & Sourcing Index (SMSI) Factory Ratings Worker Count Results
FY20 FY21 FY22 Tier 1 Tier 2 DCs FY22 Total
Gold World-leading manufacturing standards 0 0 0 # # # # %
and innovation
Americas 59,722 3,998 13,747 77,467 6
Silver Industry-leading manufacturing standards 15 14 14
EMEA 32,428 846 3,066 36,340 3
and innovation
N Asia 113,272 61,449 3,985 178,706 14
Bronze Baseline compliance with our Code of Conduct 432 424 370
S Asia 380,730 31,079 394 412,203 32
Red Serious issues or failure to return to compliance; 16 61 186
remediation plans in place to address or under
SE Asia 541,811 57,260 49 599,120 46
review to exit
Total 1,127,963 154,632 21,241 1,303,836
No Rating Enrollment in process 0 102 4
Zero Tolerance Critical issues demanding immediate action; 0 5 38
remediation steps to address the issue or
under review to exit
Target Performance Audit Counts
FY20 FY21 FY22 Change from FY20-22 Tier 1 Tier 2 DCs FY22 Total
All NIKE 94 85 60 -34 p.p. # # # # %
Tier 1 94 92 79 -15 p.p. NIKE 61 1 0 62 4
Tier 2 0 59 24 +24 p.p. SLCP40 286 158 26 470 33
DC 0 0 0 N/A SAC’s FEM40 379 185 0 564 40
ZDHC40 Wastewater Guidelines 82 166 0 248 17
DECA 0 0 20 20 1
FLA 4 0 0 4 0.3
Better Work 50 3 0 53 4
Total 862 513 46 1,421
40 Number of reports received.
Additional Priority Area: Foreign Migrant Workers
People
Additional Priority Area:
Foreign Migrant Workers
The employment of foreign migrant workers Along with adopting the Employer Pays
specifically creates an increased risk of Principle, we are also a member of the
forced labor. At NIKE, we believe in the Leadership Group for Responsible
Employer Pays Principle – prohibiting workers Recruitment (LGRR) – an initiative of the
from paying fees for their employment – Institute for Human Rights and Business.
which is a critical component of a responsible We support them with their mission to
supply chain and in eliminating forced labor drive positive change in the international
risks in the industry and beyond. recruitment industry by advocating that
governments and organizations adopt the
NIKE’s approach to foreign migrant workers Employer Pays Principle. We also updated
focuses on strengthening our standards and our Code of Conduct and CLS to help drive
expectations, identifying risks, and working clarity on our expectations of suppliers and
with global and local cross-industry, multi- facilities and the types of prohibited fees.
stakeholder organizations.
Foreign Migrant Workers
People
We also work to provide robust resources for Since FY19, NIKE has used CUMULUS In FY21, NIKE began a Strategic Partnership
suppliers to identify risks in their operations Forced Labor Screen™ – a due diligence Program with Issara Institute with the kick-
and build capabilities to recruit workers more tool to help identify risks related to the off of Issara Worker Voice program at all
responsibly. This includes partnering with recruitment of foreign migrant workers. In Tier 1 finished goods and Tier 2 material
global and local experts to provide regional FY22, we also expanded the use of the tool suppliers operating in Thailand that employ
training to suppliers. to all Tier 1 finished goods and strategic foreign migrant workers. This work focuses
Tier 2 materials suppliers hiring foreign on empowering suppliers to strengthen
In FY22, NIKE worked with the Responsible migrant workers in countries and regions human resources systems to address issues
Labor Initiative (RLI) to deliver a responsible in our extended supply chain that we have and build trust with workers while focusing
recruitment post-training program to all identified at heightened risk for forced labor on issues impacting foreign migrant workers.
strategic material suppliers in Taiwan. – including Malaysia, Thailand, Taiwan, In FY22, 243 calls were received through
This six-month program built on prior Japan, Jordan, Egypt, South Korea, Mexico, Issara Worker Voice’s multilingual hotline
trainings with a series of practical coaching Argentina, and Brazil. In FY22, a new feature channel. These calls focus on areas such
and consultation sessions between RLI was added to the tool for verification of as working conditions, employer–employee
experts and suppliers. In the program, the recruitment fee payment and reimbursement communications and relations, and labor
suppliers developed a gap analysis of their to the foreign migrant workers. This process recruitment. Issara works with the suppliers
own recruitment systems and practices helps us identify risks and opportunities, in sharing workers’ concerns anonymously,
and prioritized key areas of improvement. with focus on more impactful risks such as providing support and follow-up throughout
All suppliers worked to strengthen their recruitment fees, to further support suppliers each supplier’s improvement progress.
systems and practices in recruitment and their recruiting agents in implementing
fees and recruitment agent due diligence. best practices. It also helps us continue to In FY22, NIKE expanded our partnership
They were then divided into three smaller evaluate and monitor the effectiveness of with Issara Institute by launching their
working groups based on their other the programs put in place to address and Foreign Migrant Workers assessment
areas of focus: responsible recruitment minimize risks related to forced labor. survey in a factory in Thailand. This survey
compliance monitoring, labor contract assesses gaps in the foreign migrant worker
and job advertisement. These groups Addressing complex and critical human recruitment process, implementation of
work directly with an RLI expert weekly rights risks, like forced labor, often requires the Employer Pays Principle and working
in root cause identification, improvement industry collaboration, which is why we conditions. In FY23, we plan to expand the
plan development and implementation continue to work with multi-stakeholder survey to other Thailand facilities employing
deployment. The suppliers also gather and external organizations such as the foreign migrant workers.
monthly for learnings and best practice FLA and the ILO’s Better Work program
sharing with their top management, and to address labor risks in our supply chain.
suppliers are coached to conduct self- Through these partnerships, we are able to
evaluation of the improvements, so they address a wider range of human rights risks,
have the capability to continue their including those related to forced labor. In
improvement journey. FY22, we supported Better Work’s delivery
Leaders discuss
of trainings to workers at several suppliers in
priorities during
Jordan, focused on topics like mental well-
a shift change
at a Chang Shin being, sexual harassment prevention and
footwear facility workplace communication.
in Indonesia.
03 PL A NET
90 Carbon
111 Waste
123 Water
127 Chemistry
Planet Introduction
We believe that we, along with our We take the same innovative
Climate change is impacting athletes*
industry, have a responsibility to approach to reducing impact
reduce our impact on the planet. across our entire value chain –
around the world. We see it in flooded
That’s why we’re reimagining how from the way we manufacture and
we make products through the lens distribute products to the way we
football pitches and drought-parched
of sustainability and circularity. operate our offices, stores and
We’re focused on using recycled distribution centers. Reducing
fields, in the limited practice times materials, creating more durable impact isn’t enough though; we
materials, using better chemistry acknowledge the importance of
and making products that are easier creating positive impact through
of the young people we coach.
to refurbish or recycle. efforts such as water restoration.
Climate change takes collective
action, so we’re working across
We are radically reimagining our
our industry and beyond to lower
our shared impact.
materials, production methods
We are not waiting for solutions –
we are helping to create them.
and processes. We know we must
commit to innovating solutions that
help protect the planet, and with
it, the future of sport
.
Future Address
Planet
TAheD loDngeRr IE amS Sa IpNrofeGssi onal footballer, the clearer it becomes that
sport has the power to open hearts and change minds. Even when
TI’vHe cEho sFenU toT sUit oRut Efro m international football to make a statement
about gender disparity in football, I never saw it as time that I was giving
with
up, but rather time I was investing for tomorrow. If we get equality right
Ada Hegerberg
today, the future for women, girls and, frankly, everyone else is much
better. That’s actually the reason I opted out of playing for the Norwegian
national team in 2017, over the clear unequal treatment of the women’s
team versus the men’s. Equality isn’t the only thing that will ensure a
better future for sport. I’ve begun to advocate for our climate, too. When
soaring temperatures force the cancelation of football matches, it’s
youth teams who are left with nowhere to play. And extreme weather
creates dangerous playing conditions that increase likelihood of injury.
I think it’s pretty simple: If you love football... if you love sport, you
need to care about our collective playing field - our planet. The more
Planet Future Address “I think it’s pretty simple… if you love
sport, you need to care about our
collective playing field – our planet.”
The longer I am a professional footballer, the
clearer it becomes that sport has the power to
open hearts and change minds.
Even when I’ve chosen to sit out from international
football to make a statement about gender disparity
in football, I never saw it as time that I was giving
up, but rather time I was investing for tomorrow.
If we get equality right today, the future for women,
girls and, frankly, everyone else is much better.
That’s actually the reason I opted out of playing for
the Norwegian national team in 2017, over the clear
unequal treatment of the women’s team versus
the men’s.
Equality isn’t the only thing that will ensure a better
future for sport. I’ve begun to advocate for our
climate, too.
When soaring temperatures force the cancellation
of football matches, it’s youth teams who are
left with nowhere to play. And extreme weather
creates dangerous playing conditions that increase Together, we need to ensure that the future is
likelihood of injury. I think it’s pretty simple: If you one where sport accounts for all genders in
love football... if you love sport, you need to care an equitable, affirming and environmentally
about our collective playing field – our planet. responsible way.
The more people and brands we have standing up, To keep us on a path toward a better future, I
wanting to move all parts of athletics in the right promise to keep having meaningful conversations
direction, the more impact we can have, this is why and to push my sport to lead by example.
NIKE’s commitment to social and environmental
With hope,
equity is so important to me.
Ada
Carbon
Planet
Owned or operated greenhouse % renewable electricity
gas emissions (metric tons CO e)
2
FY21 FY22
78 93 22
% %
Quantitative Target 2020 Baseline 2025 Target
100
213,152
70% absolute reduction of GHG emissions
%
in owned or operated facilities through 100%
renewable electricity and fleet electrification
Globally, our owned and operated facilities We focus internal planning and resources
are an important part of managing our toward supporting new renewable electricity
impact. While small compared to NIKE’s project development. We continue to
overall footprint including supply chain build our experience and expertise in the
and materials, we have direct (through renewables space while supporting our
ownership) or indirect (through lease) control supply chain and expanding into other
of energy use in over 1,000 facilities. In FY15, forms of Scope 1 decarbonization.
we set our RE100 commitment to reach
100% renewable electricity by 2025 in NIKE
corporate offices, distribution centers, Air MI
and retail locations. This has been a primary
contributor to the emission reductions we’ve
seen thus far.
2025 Target
-70
%
FY21 FY22
-42% -64%
122,882 75,768
Carbon
Planet
Since our initial assessment of our overall Due to our renewable electricity
energy footprint, NIKE has worked to procurement, Scope 2 market-based
improve energy efficiency of our operations. emissions have dropped significantly. At
NIKE seeks a variety of energy-saving baseline, Scope 2 emissions comprised 75%
opportunities, but prioritizes projects at of this target; in FY22 for the first time ever,
locations with high electricity consumption Scope 1 emissions exceed Scope 2 (now
and opportunities for energy efficiency 33%). Office closures (due to COVID-19 and
upgrades. NIKE has sizable onsite renewable building construction) and energy-efficiency
electricity projects at large-scale distribution work also contributed to these reductions.
centers in Belgium and China, with onsite
solar in the U.S., Vietnam and Mexico. Natural gas use and related emissions
increased in Air MI and distribution centers
Renewable electricity use drives the majority due to spikes in cold weather and increased
of reductions of this target. We have secured ventilation due to COVID-19 operating
renewable electricity globally through requirements.
power purchase agreements (PPAs), virtual
power purchase agreements (VPPAs),
onsite projects at six distribution centers,
green power purchasing contracts, and
by securing unbundled Energy Attribute
Certificates (EACs) in select markets as a
bridge solution.
Solar panels being
installed NIKE
Mexico DC
Carbon
Planet
PROCURING We progressively adopt renewable electricity
in locations where we have a large load
RENEWABLE and where marketplace solutions are
available. In countries without feasible
ELECTRICITY solutions, we pursue other options as bridge
solutions while we continue to explore and
advocate for better options for procuring
We continue to monitor our energy and renewable electricity.
carbon growth trajectories alongside
business planning to develop more Where we have a small, dispersed footprint,
accurate forecasts for our energy needs NIKE began purchasing unbundled EACs.
and understand emerging solutions while We sourced such certificates in 15 countries,
balancing cost, risk and additionality. making up 22% of our overall renewable
electricity footprint.
In 2016 we entered a direct power purchase
agreement (DPPA) for the electricity we use We also continue to collaborate with the
at our WHQ in Oregon, which is powered U.S. Agency for International Development
from wind farms in the nearby Columbia (USAID), U.S. Department of State, as well as
River Gorge, and have further expanded other global brands to support the Vietnam
similar initiatives. government’s launch of a new renewable
electricity program. Toward the end of
We have large-scale VPPAs at wind farms FY22, NIKE became a founding member of
in Texas and Spain, which give us the the Asia Clean Energy Coalition (ACEC), a
renewable electricity for our consolidated collaboration of renewable energy buyers,
loads in the U.S. and Canada, and developers, and financiers to strategically
across Europe. shift policy in key Asian national and
regional markets41.
In Japan, NIKE distribution centers secured
100% renewable electricity through green
power purchasing contracts. In Greater
China, we developed a project to expand
renewable electricity coverage onsite with
new wind turbines adding to the existing
rooftop solar power at the Greater China
Logistics Center for FY23. With estimated
production of 14,000 MWh per year, the new
wind project is expected to bring renewable
electricity coverage at the facility to 100%.
NIKE Greater China
41 https://asiacleanenergycoalition.com Logistics Center
Carbon
Planet
31 REDUCING Offices Air MI Facilities
FY22 was a transition year for our HQ Our facilities remained open through
ENERGY USE facilities globally. We began the year COVID-19, with enhanced operating
with low on-campus attendance as our procedures requiring increased ventilation.
% workforce continued working from home. Heating, ventilation and air conditioning
We deliver energy management and Building-efficiency programs assured that systems (HVAC) increased energy use as
efficiency projects by type of building facilities were operating at the lowest energy they pulled in additional external air.
and part of the business. Some highlights possible, while meeting the needs of those
Corporate Jets
in FY22 that drove reductions include: who continued or returned onsite.
of NIKE-owned retail stores NIKE’s fleet management program for
Distribution Centers
We conducted energy audits in FY22, with aviation is pursuing the National Business
are LEED certified
We completed an LED light retrofit project at staff prepared to leverage efficiency findings Aviation Association’s Sustainable Flight
the North American Logistics Center facility as we welcomed athletes back to campus. Department Accreditation to achieve
in FY22. While we observed upticks in carbon and sustainability practices across our
waste compared to FY21, our impact metrics operations. The home-base sustainable
Retail
remain significantly below the FY20 baseline. aviation fuel (SAF) program is well
NIKE piloted energy management systems Natural gas emissions at our HQ facilities established and NIKE aims to begin
that allow stores to see actual energy use increased 13% compared to FY21 but purchasing fuel from the SAF program
in real time and adjust operations to reduce landed 24% below the FY20 baseline. monthly in FY23.
energy use. In FY23, NIKE expects to scale
Fleet
implementation with European stores in Across buildings and offices at WHQ, early
Italy, the U.K., Germany, Poland and France FY22 energy and emissions reductions We have made strides in fleet electrification,
among the first stores globally to enroll. can be credited to the Building Turn Down addressing the greatest concentration of
programs. We deployed strategic energy fleet vehicles and planning for new solutions
In addition to operating systems and management programs, achieving energy where fewer vehicles are needed. In EMEA,
controls, NIKE is addressing energy use reduction through regular data analysis we’re transitioning 300 fleet vehicles to
through design, build and retrofitting with and controls optimization. Together, these electric at distribution centers. At our WHQ
more energy-efficient choices. These measures led to 15% energy cost savings campus in Oregon, we launched the process
include heating and ventilation systems from reductions in electricity and natural to develop a dedicated EV-charging lot with
and LED lighting. gas usage. 50 ports to serve our fleet vehicles, which
will help us transition to a fully electric fleet.
NIKE has expanded its commitment to LEED This builds on our existing 135 on-campus
standards for new and remodeled stores. EV-charging locations for our fleet, and more
To date, 31% of NIKE-owned retail stores than 1,500 registered employee users.
are LEED certified.
Coaching Diaries
Planet
SPEN D A DAY WITH:
NA M R ATA A M IN
Senior Director, Material Innovation
Beaverton, Oregon, USA
“Because we’re working on future product innovations,
we rely on data to guide us – and our intuition. If
something shows promise, then we start testing and
iterating. In that sense, both data and emotion are crucial
to how we approach new technologies.”
Coaching Diaries Planting seeds Creating a nourishing environment
Planet
Some of the most exciting mornings start with Creating a cohesive culture is key to successful
innovation meetings. This is when the whole team innovation. Most afternoons, I’ll meet one-on-one
gets together to share new ideas. Everyone’s with my team to check in on their progress and
invited because the next great innovation could discuss challenges. But I’ve learned that good
come from anyone on the team. At every meeting, leadership is more organic than scheduled
we remind each other that there will always be meetings. It’s the way I greet people in the
more failures than successes in our role. So much morning or ask questions in a meeting. For me,
of my work is about building relationships and showing up and supporting my team is being
trust, listening to new ideas and giving feedback. excited to meet people where they are.
Our challenge is to find those rare innovations that
are really going to make athletes’ lives better.
“My job is to find and nurture ideas,” Namrata
My team works on environmentally preferred
Amin explains, “it’s finding the seeds, nurturing
materials. We’re seeing a huge surge in demand
them, making them into little saplings and then for more responsible apparel, and that’s exciting
because there’s a lot we can do.
planting them into the industry as trees.” She
knows growth requires two things: a positive
Thinking time
environment and consistent care. As Senior
Director, Material Innovation, Namrata puts this At the end of every week, every Friday afternoon,
I carve out time for reflection: How did we work as
ethos into practice as the leader of a team of
a team? Was there a moment someone felt they
apparel innovators at NIKE World Headquarters didn’t belong that I could have done something
differently as a leader? It’s a dialogue with myself.
in Oregon.
I build a bank of observations, make notes and
look back over longer periods. That shows me
patterns and tells me a story of what’s going on.
Namrata started her career working with heritage
handloom textiles in India. At the heart of her I also do a lot of reflection with other people,
whether it’s with my life coach or my NIKE mentor.
passion for textiles was a deep respect for our
As you grow in leadership, it can get lonely in a
world, for what she calls “the higher level of strange way. My coach and mentor are guides I
can bounce ideas around. My mentor brings so
creative unity of our planet.” Namrata’s role at
much experience to our conversations. They’ve
NIKE connects to this ethos, as she is charged had some of the experiences I’m having now, so
they are able to ask me questions that will help
with innovating new and next-generation
Nurturing and growing Working across the planet me grow as a leader. That kind of empathy is very
materials solutions in four areas of impact for nurturing: it’s helping me to become a better
After we meet on future innovation, there’s Because I work with manufacturers all over the version of myself, for me and for my team.
NIKE: carbon, waste, water and chemistry.
important work to be done tending to our ongoing world, I spend a lot of time traveling. Most months
projects. NIKE Forward was my team’s biggest I’ll be on another continent. I might be visiting our
launch in 2022. Our aim was to reduce our carbon team of innovators based in Greater China, who
Namrata is inspired by the belief that
and water footprint by completely rethinking the work with our partners overseas to bring ideas
sustainability needs to evolve from a way we make textiles. We took an existing tool in and concepts to life. In fact, I just got back from
the textile industry (needlepunch machines) and Sri Lanka, where I worked with our factory
purely technical space to an emotional
applied it to sportswear with a brand new partners to align strategy for our next cycle.
and behavioural one. At NIKE, Namrata has approach to assembling fibers and creating
apparel textiles. That game-changing non-woven It can be hard to cut off completely during the
witnessed the impact of aligning values with
textile was 5 years in the making because at every week. I’m immersed in this experience of material
action. When we “feel in our bodies that this stage we had to make sure we were applying iteration: being with experimenters and innovators,
principles of sustainability, and that we weren’t that’s my happy place. But on weekends, I switch
is our planet to nurture, together,” she tells us,
cutting corners when it came to water or carbon. off completely – no phone calls, no emails,
“that’s when we’re empowered to act for our nothing. To relax, I like sketching, it brings me
peace. And Bollywood movies, bad ones as
collective future.”
much as the classics.
Carbon
Planet
Manufacturing & transportation greenhouse
gas emissions (metric tons CO e)
2
2020 Baseline 2025 Target
3,650,162 0
%
Quantitative Target
Greenhouse gas emissions from key
suppliers’ manufacturing and transportation
operations will be at or below 2020 levels
through use of renewable energy, energy
efficiency and alternative fuels
Reducing emissions from manufacturing
People Profile
and transportation is critical for NIKE to
meet its 2030 Scope 3 science-based
emission reduction target and its longer-term
2050 target. It’s also critical to our visions
of a responsible and resilient extended
supply chain, which accounts for over
90% of the company’s greenhouse gas
footprint – with finished goods and materials
Samantha Callas
manufacturing accounting for over 30% and
logistics roughly 10%. Under business-as- Responsibility Director,
usual scenarios, absolute emissions are
APLA Operations and
anticipated to rise; therefore, we must push
Logistics
beyond incremental reductions and unlock
transformative solutions in the supply chain.
“ In order to achieve our goals in this
space, we have to accelerate the use
of alternative fuels. I’m filled with
optimism, humility and gratitude
that the work I am doing directly
FY21 FY22
drives change to create the best
-22 -15
possible tomorrow.”
% %
2,864,812 3,086,965
Carbon
Planet
At NIKE, we have a long history of working ENERGY
toward shared sustainability targets across
our supply chain. Our programs help drive EFFICIENCY
operational efficiencies and energy savings
among our owned and operated facilities,
as well as with suppliers and transportation One of the foundations of NIKE’s
providers. This helps us build operational efficiency work with suppliers is the NIKE
resilience across the value chain for a Energy Minimum Program, which brings
future where climate impacts will become organizational capabilities, data analytics
more apparent. and energy management activities to
contract manufacturers. Additionally,
Across the supply chain, our strategies NIKE works with suppliers to scale key
are focused on the areas that offer the opportunities that are likely to have the
greatest near-term opportunities to greatest impact on their unique energy
reduce emissions. Our strategies include and carbon footprint.
building engagement models and supplier
capacity programs that enhance supplier We are also working to create better
ambition, action and resiliency over the long methods to track the energy and emissions
term. To amplify our impact, we are also impact of specific activities in the value
leveraging industry groups across shared chain, which will empower NIKE to make
supply chains. better data-driven decisions for a future
lower-carbon product supply chain.
Our manufacturing emissions-reduction
strategy with suppliers is built on the
following pillars:
1 Energy efficiency
2 Onsite solar photovoltaics (PV)
at factory sites
3 Procurement of offsite
renewable electricity
4 Thermal decarbonization in dyeing
and finishing facilities A Shenzhou
facility in Vietnam
5 Engagement and capability building has replaced a
centralized coal-
6 Climate risk assessment fired boiler system
with electric boilers,
greatly reducing
GHG emissions.
Carbon
Planet
ONSITE RENEWABLE risk for suppliers during the contracting
process and make the business case for
ENERGY these investments. During FY22, suppliers
signed contracts for 96 MW of new onsite
solar. Since NIKE started the program, 190
Costs of onsite solar installations have MW of rooftop solar has been contracted
fallen to the point where they are often less at 64 facilities in NIKE’s supply chain. Due
expensive than grid-purchased electricity, to the onsite solar PV program, NIKE’s
thus offering financial savings for suppliers manufacturing base avoided 16,400 MT of
while also reducing their carbon footprint. CO e in FY22. Rooftop solar projects, which
2
Onsite solar PV can typically cover up are concentrated in Vietnam, Greater China
to 15% of electricity requirements at and Thailand, have helped suppliers grow
supplier facilities and can be scaled their rooftop solar capacity42 by 184% from
fairly quickly across sites, thus making FY20 to FY21 and 69% from FY21 to FY22.
it a major component of our renewable
energy strategy with suppliers. Policy barriers have slowed the pace of
adoption of renewable energy in FY22
Since 2019, NIKE has offered an onsite in countries that don’t have regulatory
solar PV consulting program to suppliers frameworks in place. NIKE is working with
in key markets – including China, Vietnam energy regulators to advocate for better
and Indonesia. Through the program, policies that support additional onsite solar
NIKE has provided suppliers with technical installations. We will expand our work with
advice and assistance, helping to reduce onsite solar programs in new geographies
in FY23.
In 2022,
manufacturing
supplier Shenzhou
significantly grew
their rooftop solar
42 Rooftop solar capacity increases based on signed contracts between
capacity in Vietnam. suppliers and solar developers.
Carbon
Planet
OFFSITE bundled REC program offers a good interim In Vietnam, NIKE has collaborated with
solution since buyers will be purchasing the USAID’s Vietnam Low Emission Energy
RENEWABLE local energy, helping to encourage additional Program (V-LEEP) to advocate for policy
local development of renewable energy. This supporting the government’s renewable
ENERGY initiative will significantly reduce factories’ energy DPPA pilot since 2018. Although
carbon emissions from their electricity the launch of the DPPA pilot continues to
consumption. We anticipate supplier be delayed, NIKE has actively engaged
While suppliers are making significant participation will result in over 55% reduction with the Vietnamese government to show
emissions reductions through deployment in carbon footprint from electricity in multinational business support for the
of onsite solar PV, facilitating access to Indonesia and 10% across the manufacturing finalization of the program and continues
offsite renewable electricity will offer even source base. The impact could grow as to push for that engagement through
greater opportunities for suppliers to reduce factories in Indonesia increase their volume of the ACEC and other platforms.
their emissions footprints. In FY22, NIKE electricity purchased in the program.
began developing a Renewable Electricity NIKE also supports the U.S. State
Procurement Guide for suppliers to support In most of our major markets, NIKE suppliers Department’s Clean Energy Demand
their transition to cleaner electricity. NIKE is do not have the ability to procure cleaner Initiative (CEDI), which encourages countries
also working with a cross-industry group of electricity through mechanisms that are and companies to work together to advance
multinationals to support capability building considered most beneficial in terms of shared clean energy goals by leveraging
for suppliers across Asia. Additionally, NIKE is pricing, complexity and impact – such as corporate clean energy commitments.
exploring policy frameworks to support offsite direct power purchase agreements. We are NIKE signed letters of intent to procure
procurement across our sourcing regions and continuing to advocate for government policy renewable electricity in key sourcing
encouraging suppliers to take advantage of frameworks supporting offsite procurement countries and has engaged with CEDI
those opportunities where they exist. mechanisms in these major markets. leaders to highlight policy issues we would
like to see raised with government officials.
In FY22, through collaboration with the Along with a dozen other multinational
Clean Energy Investment Accelerator (CEIA), companies, NIKE supported the launch of NIKE has also shown leadership in policy
NIKE helped facilitate a bundled Renewable the Asia Clean Energy Coalition (ACEC) in engagement though USAID’s Corporate
Energy Certificate (REC) agreement FY22. The coalition seeks to align the world’s Clean Energy Alliance, a coalition of
between Indonesia’s state-owned electricity leading cleaner energy buyers, project businesses working with governments
company and local suppliers. The program developers and financiers to help policy- across Southeast Asia to facilitate the
enables suppliers to purchase a verified and makers, utilities and energy regulators rapid deployment of cleaner energy.
traceable source of renewable electricity innovate and deploy cost effective cleaner
at a fixed, competitive price for 10–15 technologies across the Asia-Pacific region. Through a growing suite of renewable
years. NIKE anticipates that a market- Through the ACEC, NIKE representatives sat electricity solutions, NIKE hopes to continue
based solution, such as a corporate power down with Indonesia’s national utility at the accelerating supplier emissions reductions
purchase agreement mechanism, could B20 in Bali in November 2022 to share our toward meeting long-term climate targets.
take years to develop in this market. The priorities on corporate renewable electricity
procurement in Indonesia.
Carbon
Planet
COAL ELIMINATION NIKE continues to seek options to pilot The NIKE Supplier Climate Action Program
new thermal technologies through our (SCAP) is a critical component of supplier
engagement in the Renewable Thermal engagement work, supporting ambitious
Prior to 2020, NIKE ran a program to Collaborative. Additionally, NIKE’s Innovation climate action for new layers of the supply
eliminate and optimize centralized steam teams are considering a whole suite of chain. Eleven manufacturing suppliers
boiler systems across finished goods cross-cutting technology solutions that belonging to the Supplier Sustainability
manufacturing. Coal-fired steam boilers may deliver long-term emissions reductions Council (SSC) in FY22 accounted for up
typically were replaced with a more efficient in materials manufacturing. to 65% of strategic supplier emissions.
electric heating process, contributing to a These suppliers have set Scope 1 and
10% reduction in energy consumption per Scope 2 science-aligned targets for 2030.
pair of footwear manufactured between SUPPLIER In collaboration with the SSC, NIKE will
2015 and 2020. By the end of FY21, all create a joint climate action plan to serve
in-scope supplier coal use was eliminated ENGAGEMENT as a roadmap for collective emissions-
across footwear and apparel finished reduction pathway over the next 10 years.
goods manufacturing. CLIMATE CAPABILITY SSC members helped to pilot this program,
which is expected to be rolled out to all
Through the UN Fashion Charter, NIKE BUILDING strategic manufacturing suppliers.
and participating brands have a goal to
eliminate coal from finished goods and Suppliers often face difficulty obtaining
material suppliers by 2030. In materials At the beginning of every five-year target financing to invest in decarbonization
manufacturing, the transition from coal to period, NIKE works with manufacturing solutions. NIKE is working with the
other sources of energy is more challenging suppliers to set both five-year and annual International Finance Corporation’s
given the higher heat requirements in that targets to help achieve longer-term goals. (IFC) Global Trade Supplier Finance
segment of the supply chain. To encourage NIKE field teams regularly analyze supplier (GTSF) program, to provide competitive
more sustainable fuel use in thermal emission performance data and help suppliers financing rates to eligible suppliers
processing of materials, NIKE joined seven meet their 2025 targets by identifying based on their performance against
other brands in our industry with the Apparel locations that are not keeping pace with their our Foundational Expectations.
Impact Institute to explore options for coal commitments. As suppliers’ own climate
elimination across the industry. Through programs have matured, their respective
this initiative, NIKE co-chaired a working targets have evolved from energy intensity to
group that developed coal phase-out plans carbon intensity, and many prioritize absolute
for 48 boilers at 17 facilities across Vietnam carbon emissions reductions in alignment with
– including five supplier facilities. Beyond NIKE’s 2030 Science-Based Target.
Vietnam, nearly all suppliers have plans in
place to meet this target.
At a Far Eastern
textile facility in
Vietnam, biomass
is replacing coal
in steam boiler
systems.
Carbon
Planet
CLIMATE RISK TRANSPORTATION Alternative Transportation Fuels Transportation Industry Decarbonization
NIKE is working closely with our logistics To engage our logistics service providers
ASSESSMENT transportation providers to expand the on decarbonization solutions in FY22,
Our transportation work focuses around use of electric vehicles as well as lower- NIKE continued to be active in the industry
a three-pronged strategy that includes: carbon fuels in ocean, air, and road freight. groups Clean Cargo and the Sustainable Air
NIKE is working to enhance its supply In FY22, approximately 6% of our inbound Freight Alliance. Both groups are business-
chain climate resilience by integrating 1 Minimization use of air freight use; ocean shipments benefited from the use to-business leadership initiatives involving
considerations for climate risk into enterprise of sustainably-certified biofuels, reducing major brands, inbound air and ocean
2 Implementation of alternative fuels
sourcing and planning. This includes our inbound transportation emissions by carriers, and freight forwarders dedicated
for ocean, air and road freight; and
considering risks to water scarcity, clean approximately 15,000 MT CO e. We engaged to promoting responsible shipping practices.
2
energy supply, grid stability and rising in ocean transportation biofuel pilots in FY22 Additionally, NIKE continued driving positive
3 Engagement with our logistics service
temperatures. and laid the foundation with an aim to scale change in the logistics industry with our
providers and industry groups
up our ocean biofuel program in FY23. Supply Chain Sustainability Index (SCSI),
Air Freight
NIKE plans to assess key climate risks to an evaluative framework that sets clear and
the workforce in its extended supply chain In FY22, we continued to see low inbound air In EMEA, we continued expanding the use consistent sustainability expectations for
over the next 10-15 years. We’ll assess the freight usage (from manufacturing facilities of hydro-treated vegetable oil – a biofuel NIKE logistics service providers. FY22 was
impact of climate risks on individual workers’ to destination distribution centers). While derived from vegetable oil oils in outbound the sixth consecutive year that our inbound
health and productivity, as well as how those there was a small increase in inbound air logistics (from distribution centers to final air and ocean providers have participated
risks impact our operations. This research freight usage from FY21 to FY22, air freight destinations). Hydro-treated vegetable in the SCSI process.
will consider the disparities in exposure, was still well below our pre-pandemic oil can deliver an 85-90% carbon savings
and the sensitivity and adaptive capacity levels. We continued to help ensure internal compared to traditional fossil fuels and can
of workers based on location, gender, and controls and best practices are in place. be used in conventional diesel engines.
other demographic factors – with gender NIKE aims to keep inbound air freight usage In FY22, 100% of our outbound linehaul
as a crucial dimension to our assessment. low for future years. deliveries to the Netherlands, Norway, and
Sweden were on trucks using hydro-treated
In North America, we reduced our vegetable oil.
digital outbound air freight usage (from
distribution centers to digital consumers) While electric heavy-duty trucks are still
by 10 percentage points year-over-year. a relatively new innovation in long-haul
We achieved this through cross-functional trucking, they are an important next step
initiatives like fulfillment optimization, in reducing transportation emissions.
expansion of our regional service centers, In FY22, NIKE started piloting the use of
the implementation of our “No Rush” electric heavy-duty trucks for long distance
sustainable shipping option and the outbound deliveries in Belgium, helping
discontinuation of our free two-day shipping to reduce carbon emissions by more
upgrade program. Together, these initiatives than 45% compared to conventional
resulted in a 23% reduction of CO e/unit for fuel heavy-duty trucks.
2
purchases made through nike.com in North
America in FY22.
Carbon
Planet
Materials greenhouse gas emissions % Environmentally preferred
reduced (tonnes CO e) materials (EPM)
2
FY21 FY22 FY21 FY22
.123 .183 32 39
M M % %
Quantitative Target
0.5M metric tons of GHG emissions
2025 Target
reduced through increasing our use 0.5
of environmentally preferred materials M
43
to 50% of all key materials
By focusing on improving the environmental Additionally, we have continued to evolve
impact of materials within our products, how we think about our roadmap for
we have the opportunity to implement new foams. Examples include bio-based
sustainable innovations throughout our replacements of traditional fossil-based
products and work toward our emissions- foams, as well as new foams that utilize
reduction target at scale. less energy-intensive methods of make.
2025 Target
Most of our efforts are placed on replacing Innovation will be increasingly important,
50
materials with the largest impact. For focusing on circular and new recycling
footwear, we continue to focus on improving methods and material types that meet our
%
specific, high-volume materials (polyester, product and consumer requirements. NIKE
rubber and leather), through significant is well ahead of our recycled polyester plan
efforts to increase the use of recycled in both footwear and apparel. We have made
versions of these materials and developing significant progress toward our leather target
the necessary business strategies to support since last year’s report but are still tracking
their use at scale. behind our goal for rubber.
2020 Baseline 2020 Baseline
43 Key materials – polyester, cotton, leather and rubber.
Carbon
Planet
Polyester, cotton and a blend of the two are POLYESTER At the end of FY22, recycled polyester
responsible for most of the material used by made up 46% of NIKE Footwear’s total
NIKE Apparel – and its carbon footprint. Our polyester usage, up from 28% the previous
focus is to drive impact at scale in reducing Polyester, found in nearly every pair of year. Progress was driven by our focus on
our carbon footprint and selecting better NIKE footwear, is a core material due to its foundational polyester-based materials
materials. We are concentrating our efforts performance and durability. Because polyester that cut across our product portfolio, such
on material conversions to recycled polyester is such a versatile and widely used material in as laces, linings and reinforcements. In
and recycled and organic cotton on our NIKE footwear, it is also the primary option to addition, we have prioritized converting
largest-volume materials and products, which focus on transitioning to recycled polyester textiles and yarns to recycled polyester
requires cross-functional collaboration from at scale, as it can be replaced with little to used in our business volume drivers (such
Innovation and Supply Chain to Marketing no compromise to material performance, as the Better Essentials collection and
and our consumers at retail. aesthetic and hand feel. the Downshifter 12) and iconic silhouettes
(such as Air Max).
Two years into our five-year journey to 2025, In FY22, we saw a 10 percentage points
our focus on key materials with scalable increase for recycled polyester in apparel While we have made great progress in our
options that can drive impact at scale has compared to 38% in FY21. NIKE continues journey toward recycled polyester, we still
enabled NIKE to make tremendous progress to convert global sports kits that are have more work to accomplish and have
toward our carbon-reduction targets. showcased on the biggest stages around plans in place to continue to convert our
NIKE is ahead of its recycled polyester plan the world in federation kits for Global top materials and products.
in apparel and continues to see excellent Football, including the kits for the Women’s
momentum through the teams to convert European Championship, and WNBA and Our Innovation teams are researching
more materials and products. Apparel is on NBA basketball uniforms. We are also driving closed-loop alternatives like feedstock
track for its organic cotton plan, but slightly tremendous scale with the conversion of or chemically recycled polyester44, as well
behind in recycled cotton. NIKE continues most of our apparel icons the Legend Tee as bio-based versions to further improve
to explore plans to increase recycled cotton and Club Fleece to recycled polyester. NIKE’s polyester footprint and work toward
usage and close this gap in future years. a circular future.
Dong Jin Textile
in Indonesia knits
fabric for footwear
from recycled
44 Chemical recycling (feedstock recycling) refers to operations that aim to chemically degrade the collected plastics waste into its monomers or other basic chemicals.
The output may be reused for polymerisation into new plastics for the production of other chemicals or as an alternative fuel. polyester.
Carbon
Planet
COTTON RUBBER
Regrind material in NIKE Footwear
Cotton remains an important material for Rubber is the key outsole traction
NIKE Apparel. Demand for cotton continues material used across NIKE footwear;
% of Nike Grind
to grow due to our focus on sport lifestyle as such, our goal is to reduce how much
FY22 material in
products and increased interest for both rubber we use. We aim to move to high- Tiered Models outsole
t-shirts and fleece. Our organic cotton recycled-percentage formulations that
Revolution 6 NN 10%
usage is supported mainly through a maintain material benefits while lowering
10% blending program across most of our environmental impact. In parallel, we’re
Downshifter 12 13%
cotton materials. This usage and strategy innovating ways to reduce the amount of
places NIKE among the top users of rubber used through additive design and Star Runner GS 8.1%
organic cotton globally. manufacturing while also exploring other
Crater Impact 14%
materials and methods to replicate the
FY22 was the beginning of our cross- performance of rubber at a lower impact.
Air Max 2021 13%
functional recycled cotton strategy to NIKE Footwear aims to achieve our 2025
establish priorities and build roadmaps and goal of 10% recycled rubber but broad
plans. We now have a strategic plan for use in lifestyle models has been limited.
conversions of major materials and products Progress to date has been driven by using
that will consist of blends of recycled cotton recycled rubber formulations primarily on
that should reach the consumer in the Running and Global Football models and
near future. Kids Performance products. In the future,
we want to standardize those formulations
We are supplementing our cotton portfolio across footwear including high-volume
of organic and recycled cotton with third- lifestyle products. We are working across
party-certified cotton. We are planning even our Innovation and Manufacturing teams and
more adoption and capabilities in FY24 and rubber compound suppliers to unlock high-
beyond as we increase our recycled cotton recycled-content rubber options that meet
usage and our closed-loop recycling rates, our design and durability expectations.
as well as reducing waste at Tier 1 suppliers.
NIKE
Crater Impact
Carbon
Planet
CONVERSE portfolio of leather materials by shifting Top Five Materials46 in Product by Volume47
our sourcing toward those materials that
FY20 FY21 FY22
GRIND are measurably lower impact (for carbon
emission and waste) than average. In FY22, metric metric metric
we have partnered with key suppliers to tons % tons % tons %
Converse is tracking toward 10% recycled measure their impacts across the full value
Polyester Recycled 44,387 23% 55,477 33% 82,317 46%
rubber across all footwear by 2025. chain, from farm to factory, to inform our
Converse has introduced several key sourcing and identify opportunities for
Total Polyester Use 195,490 166,343 180,645
programs in FY22 using its Grind process additional impact reduction across the
that depending on footwear style and rubber supply chain. We continue to explore other Cotton Organic 10,811 10% 13,680 12% 17,748 12%
color is able to incorporate approximately alternatives for leather from non-animal
Recycled 503 0.4% 905 0.8% 867 0.6%
22%–40% reclaimed/reused rubber sources and scale the use of synthetic
scraps from the manufacturing process and recycled synthetic leather in our key
Third-Party Certified 85,139 75% 66,776 58% 94,417 66%
back into select outsoles. Converse aims essentials. We are also maintaining our
to incorporate the Grind process across standards, and require 100% of our leather Total Cotton Use 113,615 115,543 142,113
additional product lines, while continuing to suppliers to be members in good standing
Rubber Recycled 564 0.7% 689 0.9% 2,045 2%
explore new processes that would allow for with Leather Working Group.
higher contents of non-virgin rubber45.
Total Rubber Use 76,141 78,896 94,494
Ethylene-Vinyl Recycled 978 2% 907 2% 2648 0.1%
LEATHER Acetate (EVA)
Total EVA Foam Use 61,053 53,055 44,523
Foam
Leather49 Flyleather 53 0.1% 57 0.1% 13 0.02%
Leather is one of the highest-impact
materials for both carbon emissions and
Synthetic Leather 18,623 36% 16,031 26% 18,117 28%
waste across the footwear and apparel
industry. On the other hand, it also provides Total Leather Use 51,646 60,502 65,870
value in product durability and longevity.
Due to the consumer preference for classic
46 Total material use rows reflect both EPM totals and conventional materials totals. Only EPMs are called out in table. As we have shifted data sources to enable more inclusive scope of measurement in our 2025
NIKE leather icons such as the triple-
targets, our percentage has dropped. We continue to explore ways to help grow our sustainable cotton percentage in alignment with the expanded measurement scope. Cotton and polyester data includes NIKE
white Air Force 1, Air Jordan 1, Blazer and Brand footwear, apparel and socks, and Converse footwear and apparel. Rubber, EVA foam and leather data includes NIKE Brand footwear only.
47 Total material use reflects EPM and conventional materials. As we have shifted data sources to enable more inclusive scope of measurement in our 2025 targets, our percentage has dropped. We continue to explore
Court Vision, leather models continued
ways to help grow our organic, recycled and third-party certified cotton percentage in alignment with the expanded measurement scope. Cotton and polyester data includes NIKE Brand footwear, apparel and
to outpace the growth of the rest of NIKE socks, and Converse footwear and apparel. Rubber, EVA foam and leather data includes NIKE Brand footwear only.
48 Recycled EVA foam dropped due to methodological shifts in underlying data, combined with key suppliers of recycled EVA being offline several months due to COVID.
Footwear. To meet consumer demand while
49 All leather is Leather Working Group certified.
reaching our 2025 target we want to use
the lowest-impact materials available from
the best-in-class suppliers.
Our plan for 2025 is to decarbonize our
45 Non-virgin rubber is defined as rubber scrap from Converse factories or scrap from the NIKE supply chain.
Coaching Diaries
Planet
SPEN D A DAY WITH:
THUY VU
Global Leadership Development Program,
Beaverton, Oregon, USA
“We talk about the obstacles we’ve overcome and how we build
strength from these experiences. Failure is such a scary word,
but I think it’s essential to growth. The beauty of the Global
Leadership Development Program is that we’re given space to
learn from each other. If one of us solves a problem, we all benefit
and can share that knowledge with our wider teams.”
Planet Coaching Diaries Mastering a global workday
Communication between North America and
Asia is essential to my role. I might start early for
a breakfast meeting with my Global Leadership
Development Program (GLDP) cohort here in
Beaverton, but also have a late call to speak with
one of our teammates in Asia. Because of the time
difference, I need to be able to work flexibly: it’s
not your typical 9 to 5.
One of the ways I break up my day is with sport.
Thuy Vu is a connector by nature. “When we talk
I always start the day with yoga, to begin with a
about supply chain,” she says, “we’re talking really fresh mind. If I can, I’ll run in the afternoon.
For me, it’s as much about mental as physical
about people.” Thuy has been driving impact for
health. If I’m struggling with an idea, I can take
NIKE for more than 16 years – starting in Vietnam. that with me on my run, refresh it and address it
in a different way.
Originally from Hanoi, for Thuy this work is
Getting started with Building trust
personal. A majority of NIKE’s manufacturing
strategic thinking
footprint is in Vietnam. Whether she’s working on When I begin a new six-month rotation, the most
important thing is building trust and understanding
programs that help get kids active or advancing A large part of what I do is strategy. In practice,
the team I’m working with. To be a good leader,
that means lots of different things. Sometimes,
policy engagement to expand renewable energy, you have to be committed to learning all the time.
I have a very specific problem to solve – like
she’s driving impact for her community. identifying external speakers who can bring
One person I’ve learned a lot from is Marine
inspiration and learnings to NIKE and our Sending it back
Graham, Vice President of Responsible Supply
suppliers in the Supplier Sustainability Council
Chain. She was in the very first cohort of the
Thuy was invited to relocate to NIKE World (SSC). Other times, it’s much broader in scope, My time at NIKE World Headquarters has
GLDP, so her journey is a powerful example for
such as the 2030 Vision for the SSC. provided me with new ways to drive impact.
Headquarters in 2020 and later joined a supply me. It’s one of those full-circle moments that I’m
NIKE has supported my ambition to create ties
on her team now.
chain leadership development program. Now I always start by listening. In this rotation, I’ve between Oregon and Vietnam by approving my
been investigating ways to scale impact across board position on the Oregon-Vietnam Economic,
in her third rotation of four, she is focused on
the supply chain by working with suppliers and Education and Cultural Association (OVEECA).
creating the 2030 vision for NIKE’s Supplier industry associations. For example, I start by The organization, which I co-founded, focuses
asking: What opportunities are there for us to on leveraging education, cultural and language
Sustainability Council, which advances programs
accelerate this work? What programs are we exchange, and investing in young leaders.
around climate action and gender equity beyond currently implementing with suppliers? How can
From Vietnam to the States
we collaborate pre-competitively with the industry
NIKE’s footprint.
to amplify impact? I will carry these questions
More than 50% of NIKE’s footwear manufacturing A perfect evening
through the rest of my day, whether I’m in a
and 30% of apparel manufacturing takes place in
meeting with NIKE teammates or on my run.
“NIKE’s extended supply chain, with over Vietnam. One of my key responsibilities is to bring My perfect evening is spent with my kids. We
knowledge from working in the country to our share what we did during the day, and just enjoy
1.2 million workers, is made up of mostly women.
global team. I can help the team see how policies being together. Because of the time difference,
When we talk about our vision for the future actually come to life in-country within facilities and after work is a good time to call family and friends
with our suppliers. in Vietnam. If I call my best friend in Ho Chi Minh
of sustainability with suppliers, we’re talking
City before I go to bed, that’s lunchtime for her.
about women.” The GLDP is based on this idea. Each high-
performing, high-potential cohort spends two Time away from the office is so important. Even
years doing four six-month rotations across if I work late during the week, my weekends are
Thuy makes sure the team has one foot in NIKE’s supply chain teams. Participants bring a time for rest and spending time with loved ones.
their diverse experience to each rotation. And, When you prioritize rest, you have the capacity to
the future with the other firmly grounded in
we learn from each other: from how to adjust be there for others. My resolution this year was to
community – because this work isn’t about our leadership style to different cultures to how think about all the positive things I can do for
to drive action and inspire NIKE teams all over other people to make them smile and laugh.
supply chain; it’s about people.
the world.
FY30 Science-Based Targets
Planet
FY30 SCIENCE- Much bigger than any of NIKE’s historical PERFORMANCE Scope 3
carbon targets in duration, scope and As a growth company, decoupling our total
BASED TARGETS ambition, our SBTs represent the first full emissions footprint from unit growth remains
Scope 1 and 2
carbon footprint targets we have set as a a critical challenge to address as we strive to
(SBTs) company. Stretching from FY15 to FY30, We have met our Scope 1 and 2 SBT reach our absolute carbon targets. Another
they significantly exceed our standard five- several years early. However, we know that obstacle stems from the fact that given long
year Purpose target cadence. Extending maintaining these emissions reductions product timelines, the products currently
We have been working to reduce carbon deeper into our supply chain than ever requires ongoing effort, and thus are actively in market reflect decisions made several
emissions stemming from our business before, our SBTs address much more focused on ensuring these reductions persist. years ago, which creates a lag in realizing
for decades, and in FY17 we committed to than our own operations under our direct the carbon reductions due to strategies and
setting long-term carbon targets aligned influence, and goes beyond the parts of Our Scope 1 emissions continue to grow investments made since the announcement
with the emerging consensus on climate our supply chain we’ve targeted in the past; versus our FY15 baseline (+43%) and year- of our SBT.
science. In line with the SBT initiative’s it requires nothing less than extensive, over-year (+9%) due to our expanding owned
commitment criteria, we used FY15 as disruptive innovation. Similar to our FY25 and operated facility portfolio combined While we continue to see an increase in
our baseline, calibrating the start of our carbon targets, our SBTs are absolute rather with the limited availability of scalable, lower- emissions against the FY15 baseline, this
15-year SBT tracking period with the Paris than relative, per-unit targets. carbon alternatives to replace natural gas growth has slowed, as seen in our year-over-
Agreement50 as well as with our shorter- and other carbon-intensive fuels. FY22 year reduction, indicating the impact of our
term five-year Purpose targets. We finalized Together, these factors render our carbon brought momentum through procurement of long-term decarbonization efforts.
defining our SBT reduction goal in FY19, targets more difficult to achieve the more sustainable aviation fuel via a regular supply
at which time we galvanized coordination our business grows. While our FY25 targets to our home aviation base, and we continue
Scope 1 and 2
company-wide to start systemic changes are designed to support our progress to explore sources of renewable natural gas,
FY22 vs. FY15
across NIKE to advance our progress toward toward our SBTs, achieving our FY25 targets leveraging our internal sustainable fuels policy Baseline FY22 vs. FY21 Target
this ambitious goal. doesn’t guarantee successfully achieving to enable consistency in decision-making.
-71% -38% -65%
our FY30 SBTs. This highlights the criticality
of deepening our work beyond the areas At 93% renewable electricity adoption
covered by our FY25 targets in order to (+79 percentage points compared to our
Scope 3
accomplish our SBTs. FY15 baseline) via onsite solar and wind,
FY22 vs. FY15
power purchase agreements and unbundled Baseline FY22 vs. FY21 Target
Renewable Energy Credits, we’ve seen an
+8% -8% -30%
89% decrease in Scope 2 emissions against
our baseline (and a 67% decrease versus
FY21). We continue to explore options to
expand our renewable electricity portfolio to
reach our goal of 100% renewable electricity
by FY25.
50 The Paris Agreement’s central aim is to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change by keeping a global temperature rise this century well
below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase even further to 1.5 degrees Celsius. (Source)
FY30 Science-Based Targets
Planet
Scope 3 Performance vs. Baseline Scope 3 Performance vs. Last Year LOOKING AHEAD
Growth in our product offering (i.e., units) Along with these improvements in materials
remains a primary driver in our emissions manufacturing driving year-over-year
rising against the baseline, along with the reductions, further advancements in To achieve our ambitious emissions-
continued popularity of higher-carbon- materials used in product and packaging reduction goal, we will focus on increasing
intensity materials in footwear (such have also made an impact. Within raw use of EPMs, helping factories convert
as leather). Additionally, the soaring materials, we have augmented our to use of more renewable energy and
emissions intensity of the electricity grid in emissions factors (derived from LCAs) to working across industries to accelerate
manufacturing regions (particularly Vietnam) better reflect the reality of our material decarbonization of fuels, packaging and
against the baseline has contributed to supply chain. Some of our associated other components of the value chain
growth in our emissions footprint. material emissions decreased due to necessary to produce, move and sell
operational and business improvements NIKE products.
In contrast to these factors, renewable (e.g., among our primary leather suppliers),
energy adoption across our finished goods and some of our materials emissions have
manufacturers and materials dyeing and changed due to methodology revisions
finishing suppliers, and within some raw associated with more accurate materials
material source countries, has helped process mapping (see Appendix for more
mitigate emissions in our supply chain. information). Within packaging, material
We’ve realized further reductions in apparel emissions-intensity reductions due to
materials emissions due to increased improvements in packaging-material
efficiency and proactive management of emissions methodologies and more
manufacturing activities across our materials accurate packaging-material mapping led
dyeing and finishing suppliers. This has to a drop in overall packaging emissions.
resulted in the ability to leverage direct
measurements of energy consumption
in textile manufacturing operations (e.g.,
knitting, weaving, leather tanning and non-
woven manufacturing) rather than solely
relying on estimated data using general
lifecycle assessment (LCA) emission factors.
Additionally, we’ve seen emissions from
logistics continue to drop as inbound air
freight remains at near-historic lows for
our company.
Teammates at a Far
Eastern facility in
Vietnam load a dye
machine with fabric
made from recycled
polyester.
FY30 Science-Based Targets
Planet
SBT Footprint FY15-22 (Metric Tons CO e)
2
Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3
Total
FY22 10,029,259
50,868 | 24,900 | 9,953,491
FY21 10,950,116
46,462 | 76,420 | 10,827,234
FY20 11,817,270
52,312 | 160,840 | 11,604,118
FY19 10,992,794
46,713 | 105,390 | 10,737,016
FY18 10,522,073
41,941 | 210,321 | 10,269,811
FY17 10,211,813
40,138 | 224,511 | 9,947,164
9,696,355
FY16
37,325 | 225,853 | 9,433,177
9,483,676
FY15
35,264 | 228,770 | 9,219,282
Waste
Planet
Waste/unit (grams/unit)
2020 Baseline
292.38
Quantitative Target
2025 Target
10% waste reduction per unit in
-10
manufacturing, distribution, headquarters
%
and packaging through improved design
and operational efficiency
Reducing waste reduces carbon emissions,
People Profile
the consumption of natural resources, the
strain on ecosystems and the full range
of impacts associated with making and
disposing of manufactured materials
and products. Preventing waste typically
provides at least twice the carbon reduction
and economic benefit of recycling. At our
size, scale and growth, reducing waste per
Sofie Rollier
unit will be essential to mitigate the total
impact of our products. Sustainability Manager,
EMEA Logistics
“ I am proud of our work to reduce our
carbon emissions and hungry to do
more – I want everyone to feel like they
are part of our journey. It is amazing
to feel that at NIKE, we also influence
and inspire our partners and those
around us to do better, which makes the
impact of our work go far beyond our
own efforts.” FY21 FY22
-6 -8
% %
274.58 269.40
Waste
Planet
NIKE has a holistic strategy for achieving optimizing the size, shape and layout of Within apparel, we consider the material
this target that focuses on the major drivers parts that are cut out of upper materials. efficiency of our designs early on in
of waste. At its core, this strategy includes This includes maximizing the use of leather our product creation and development
using less material and maximizing materials hides, sheets of textile, synthetic leather and process, which reduces waste throughout
we use through manufacturing efficiencies other materials. We also support suppliers’ the manufacturing process. This can be
and improvements, and reusing whatever efforts to reduce midsole and outsole achieved through adjustments to patterns to
we can. We do this by using lighter materials, (bottom) defects, rubber waste and carton optimize fabric yields, using lighter-weight
increasing pattern efficiencies in our waste, which comprise more than 75% of the materials where possible and increasing
material cuts and using lean 2.0 principles waste that suppliers can control or influence. our reliance on inherently less wasteful
for continual improvement. methods of make, such as Flyknit. We are
To reduce defects and rubber waste, we also working to reduce packaging both
We measure and report on waste across improved our lean 2.0 manufacturing on and around our products, as well as
our full value chain – from product creation systems and are scaling systems to track in transportation.
to manufacturing facilities and distribution the sources and root causes of these waste
centers. We then set goals for reducing types. In FY22, we scaled our bottom defect In our FY21 report, we shared the challenges
it and implement plans to achieve those tracking system to factories responsible for we had in using available data to estimate
goals in partnership with thousands of 50% of bottom component defect waste. product waste. In FY22, significant progress
teammates across the world who are This reduced the midsole defect rate at has been made on both data quality and
working tirelessly to contribute toward these targeted factories by 45% and prevented accessibility, which helps us implement
waste-reduction targets. approximately 2.5 million kilograms of waste. baseline standards and reporting in the
We also started to track rubber flashing product creation process to build more
waste by model at 28 targeted factories efficient designs. We hope to share our
MANUFACTURING that drive 80% of this waste stream, and are results with suppliers in FY23.
strategically focusing root cause analysis
WASTE on the models that drive this waste stream
the most.
Eighty-two percent of finished goods To reduce carton waste, we are replacing
manufacturing waste is from footwear. About single-use cardboard cartons with
60% of that is from creating the upper part reusable boxes where possible. In FY22,
of shoes and 40% from making the midsole we continued to scale our reusable carton
and outsole. Most of the materials used in initiative to 12 more suppliers and 34
footwear manufacturing use petroleum or finished goods factories in three countries,
leather, both of which are environmentally preventing an additional 500,000 kilograms
intensive to produce. We work with suppliers of waste per year.
to minimize upper materials scrap by
With suppliers like
Feng Tay, we are
tracking root causes
to prevent and
reduce rubber waste.
Waste
Planet
DISTRIBUTION The key process to reducing corrugate waste HEADQUARTERS
in our distribution centers is addressing
CENTERS the master outer cartons (MOCs) used to
ship products from manufacturing facilities In FY22, NIKE completed a comprehensive
to distribution centers. When stores order waste audit of its WHQ in Oregon. We
NIKE’s business growth and reach to quantities that differ from the factory supplier developed a targeted waste roadmap that
consumers across the globe requires case sizes, for example, distribution centers will inform actions needed to achieve our
that we move our product throughout our unpack inbound corrugated cardboard waste reduction targets. We identified
supply chain with care for the product and cartons and repack them in new cartons key levers, such as promoting employee
the expectations of our consumer related – that process creates more waste. About behaviors and procurement guidelines. Then
to cost, convenience, service, quality, and 45% of the outer cartons must be disposed we acted on them, by enhancing centralized
sustainability. As a result, we constantly and recycled to repack manufacturing waste stations and introducing durable
challenge ourselves on our waste steams cartons into smaller quantities for express containers in to-go dining areas
to first reduce and then, once optimized, our customers. to reduce disposable containers.
recycle. At over 90%, corrugated cardboard
used for product packaging continues to be In FY22, we cut the weight of footwear With the return to workplace at our
the primary waste driver at our distribution MOCs by 24%, for over 30% of our footwear headquarters (HQs) around the world,
centers. While corrugate is a recyclable MOC portfolio, and removed 770,000 we were challenged to reintroduce and
waste, its volume grows with our business. kilograms of corrugate weight shipped strengthen sustainable behaviors. We
Reducing and reusing packaging where from factory suppliers. We plan to continue determined that the most effective way to
possible before recycling it enables us scaling this effort in FY23 targeting apparel achieve our waste goals was to produce and
to reduce the extraction of finite natural and accessory MOCs in addition to procure less waste. Key strategies to reduce
resources and the carbon and cost footwear MOCs. waste at our HQs include:
associated with new corrugate production.
1 Fostering a culture of “right-sizing” –
purchasing only what is required and
refraining from ordering catering or
product in excess
2 Promoting durable over disposable
products and materials – for example,
incorporating reusable hot and cold
cups and silverware in kitchen and
dining areas
Serena Williams
Building NIKE
WHQ
Waste
Planet
% of waste diverted from % of waste recycled51
landfill and incineration51
FY21 FY22 FY21 FY22
97 97 70 72
% % % %
Quantitative Target 2025 Target
100
100% of waste diverted from landfill in
%
our extended supply chain with at least
80% recycled back into NIKE products
and other goods 2025 Target
80
%
As NIKE’s business grows, it’s critical
People Profile
that we decouple this growth from a
dependence on constrained natural
resources by keeping materials circulating
at their highest value. Our diversion and
recycling targets represent our goal to
operate a responsible supply chain and
circular systems that maximize material
reuse and recycling while minimizing value Tina Wu
loss and diverting waste more responsibly
Partner Responsibility
in the communities where we work and
make our products. Manager, GC
Our strategy for reaching this goal is
“ I am happy to see we can change
focused on minimizing waste generation,
the way people look at waste together
increasing reuse and recycling, and
and influence their behavior by
recovering energy from waste that can’t be
showing them how we turn waste
prevented, reused or recycled at this time.
into valuable material.”
51 Diverted waste: Includes waste to energy incineration, recycled waste, and composted waste. Recycled waste: Includes recycled and composted waste.
Waste
Planet
MANUFACTURING Year over year, we recycled 21% more scrap into materials they supply back
kilograms of total manufacturing waste, which to Tier 1 factories to make new finished
helped to drive up the overall manufacturing products. NIKE hopes these efforts will
In FY22, we achieved 100% diversion of waste recycling rate by five percentage result in increases in closed-loop apparel
waste to landfill in apparel and continued points despite increased waste generation in fabric recycling from late FY23 and build
100% diversion in footwear for the second manufacturing. into FY24 and FY25.
year. Recycling rates increased to 54% in
footwear and to 87% in apparel in FY22, We are also targeting polyester fabric waste
helping us move one step closer to our CLOSED-LOOP in key locations where feedstock or chemical
ambition for full circularity. recycling technologies44 are available and
RECYCLING 52 encouraging scaling of these technologies
Some materials are harder to recycle than in other areas where polyester product
others, with few scaled recycling options for manufacturing is predominant.
mixed materials. Through our Foundation Closed-loop recycling is our highest
for Excellence Program with suppliers, we aspiration and the goal we are continually In the years to come, additional solutions
can help them segregate, handle and store working toward. By increasing closed-loop for blended textile materials, which are
their scrap materials according to our high recycling we can maximize the recycling of more challenging to recycle than materials
standards to maximize their marketability. our waste back into footwear and apparel or made entirely from cotton or polyester, must
We have seen local markets emerge and similar products. be found. We are working to identify and
evolve in response to the constant availability scale promising technologies in our key
Apparel
of these high-quality, sorted materials – manufacturing geographies as part of
particularly in the countries where most Textile-to-textile recycling takes pressure off our long-term strategy.
of our manufacturing scrap is generated. virgin material supply chains for cotton and
Footwear
polyester. In the near term, NIKE intends to
We are also actively working with suppliers, focus on cotton and polyester supply chains Our strategy for closing the loop on footwear
along with third parties, to identify promising to reduce our dependence on higher-impact materials is two-pronged, with a near-term
recycling innovations and operators for our versions of important fabrics. focus on reincorporating higher volumes
highest-volume and highest-impact materials of more readily recyclable materials while
for the future. Globally, we face a critical lack Part of our strategy focuses on increasing seeking innovations for more challenging
of scaled, in-market recycling technologies NIKE’s use of recycled cotton by increasing materials. Our immediate focus is on closed-
and quality operators located near our the amount of cotton manufacturing scrap loop recycling of rubber and EVA foam
manufacturing locations that can process that Tier 3 recyclers (yarn suppliers) and Tier scraps, which make up over 22% of our
the full range of waste materials our product 2 fabric suppliers source from Tier 1 finished footwear waste.
supply chain generates into usable feedstock goods factories. From there, Tier 2 and
for new products. We know that creating a Tier 3 suppliers recycle the manufacturing High quality,
sorted materials
circular future for NIKE and the industry is
help maximize
going to require innovation and collaboration.
the marketability
of manufacturing
scrap at facilities
52 Closed-loop recycling refers to NIKE manufacturing or other waste material that is included in the manufacturing of NIKE finished goods.
like Chang Shin’s
44 Chemical recycling (feedstock recycling) refers to operations that aim to chemically degrade the collected plastics waste into its monomers or other basic chemicals.
The output may be reused for polymerisation into new plastics for the production of other chemicals or as an alternative fuel. in Indonesia.
Waste
Planet
Nike Grind Footwear Waste Volumes Recycled (Metric Tons)
For example, we are working to find more Our Nike Grind program, which turned 30 this
efficient ways to color sort rubber waste to year, gives what was once considered waste
Waste Source Disposition Method FY20 FY21 FY22
overcome the aesthetic challenges of using a new life in Nike Grind partner products
mixed recycled rubber. We are also focusing from flooring to furniture, skateboards to Post-Industrial (Factory Scrap) Reused in NIKE Products and Recycled by Global 49,629 51,584 59,067
on expanding the usage of recycled EVA iPhone cases and playgrounds to Olympic Open Loop Customers
midsoles with standardized formulations training facilities. In FY22, we saw a 4%
Post-Consumer + Unsellables54 Reused by Global Open Loop Customers 79 170 556
that are available in all manufacturing increase in open-loop recycling as demand
(Consumer Shoes + NIKE Samples
countries. Some materials like leather and from regional markets for NIKE manufacturing
and Defectives)
mixed materials provide more challenges scrap materials grew faster than expected.
when it comes to closed-loop recycling,
Total Footwear 49,708 51,754 59,62355
but we are continually exploring and testing The Home Depot named Nike Grind and
Materials Recycled
new innovations. We are also working Future Foam as its 2021 Environmental
with vendors to explore closed-loop Partner of the Year in recognition of NIKE’s
polyester waste as a potential replacement dedication to innovation and a circular future.
for polyester from ground up plastic The Home Depot is the largest distributor of
beverage containers. products made with Nike Grind, representing
over 4.5 million pounds of waste recycled
In FY22, we increased recycled rubber usage every year. Over 10 years of collaboration with
across footwear to 2.2%. We also increased The Home Depot and Future Foam, we have
the creation of higher recycled content collectively recycled 58 million pounds
midsole foams by implementing incremental of waste.
changes through chemical engineering.
We also made progress on solutions
for harder-to-recycle materials like
OPEN-LOOP leather. DECODED, a premium lifestyle
tech accessory brand, launched a new
RECYCLING 53 sustainability-minded collection, RE_CODED,
made with Nike Grind leather. NIKE’s post-
tannery leather scraps are historically
When we face limitations on what can be challenging to reuse, and DECODED is
reused in our own products, we drive higher the first brand to launch a product using
recycling rates by segregating, consolidating this material stream. The RE_CODED
and processing scrap materials for reuse collection with Nike Grind launched sales
in other industries. Our focus is on finding through Apple, Verizon and other tech
markets for our largest material waste types – accessories distributors.
blended textiles, rubber, foams, leather and
synthetic leather.
53 Open-Loop Recycling refers to recycling NIKE footwear waste by third-parties, who subsequently use it to manufacture other non-NIKE products.
54 Unsellables refers to NIKE sample products, defective products and returned products that aren’t fit for resale as NIKE products.
55 In addition to the footwear data detailed in the table above, ~20,000 metric tons of post industrial apparel was open-loop recycled.
Waste
Planet
DISTRIBUTION NIKE Not surprisingly, returning to campus CONVERSE
more than doubled the waste at WHQ
CENTERS HEADQUARTERS on a quarter-over-quarter basis. The HEADQUARTERS
majority of the resulting waste, however,
was recyclable cardboard packaging AND NORTH
In FY22 NIKE recycled 85% of distribution In FY22, we completed a comprehensive and furniture that was donated or reused
center waste, cardboard accounted for waste audit of NIKE WHQ in Oregon and between buildings as occupancy plans AMERICA RETAIL
94% of that waste. We aim to drive higher developed a targeted waste roadmap to shifted. Despite the challenges created
and more consistent recycling across all our waste-reduction goals. The waste audit by returning to the workplace, the teams
distribution centers. We are focused on demonstrated that there were opportunities continued to drive progress toward the Our Converse HQ in Boston has made major
understanding the composition of waste to reduce waste stream contamination FY25 sustainability goals. strides toward waste diversion by upgrading
that’s not being recycled and improving rates by approximately 40%. We also to premium service with a local composting
waste sorting and training to maximize identified food service as the largest waste We educate and engage our athletes to foster company, Bootstrap, to increase ease
the percentage of recyclable material source, contributing 30% of overall waste a sustainable mindset and adopt sustainable and frequency of compost pickup, saving
that is properly segregated and shipped generation. Key reduction levers focused practices and choices in their day-to-day approximately $47,000 annually. This service
to recyclers. on encouraging employees to engage in lives through campus events, sustainability includes compost accessibility to Converse
more sustainable behaviors to achieve our pop ups, lunch and learn sessions and teammates on every floor and the nearby
We are also working to increase landfill waste-reduction goals. internal communications. Converse Concept Creation Center (C4)
diversion within our distribution centers. In in Charlestown.
the EMEA and Greater China geographies, Based on the audit, NIKE developed a
we have already achieved 100% diversion comprehensive Zero Waste Roadmap In FY22, Converse completed a transition to
with operations. In North America and leveraging our strongest asset – our people. paper bags in all North America retail stores.
APLA, we are closing the gap and expect to One example is the TerraCycle glove- Through this initiative, Converse eliminated
engage additional energy recovery capacity recycling program, which launched in our the use of an estimated four million plastic
to increase recycling in FY2356. For North kitchens and custodial teams in FY22, bags by the end of 2021 and is continuing
America markets we are challenged by helping divert 28 metric tons from landfill. to extend the effort globally. The effort is
limited opportunities to increase recycling By introducing programs that make recycling part of NIKE’s participation in the Fashion
infrastructure. In North America we and landfill diversion easier, we tap into the Pact – a global coalition of companies in the
emphasized distribution center education potential of our NIKE employees. fashion and textile industry working toward
and training on collecting and converting a common set of environmental goals.
food waste to compost. That compost
is used as nutrients for our own NIKE
community gardens. These are volunteer-
led gardens help facilitate landfill diversion,
circularity and community engagement.
56 Energy recovery is a process in which all or part of solid waste is processed to use the heat content, or other forms of energy, of or from the material.
Waste
Planet
FPW collected and recycled FY21 FY22
or donated (units) 1.9 2.4
x x
2.4M 3.1M
2025 Target
10
X
Quantitative Target
10x the amount of finished product waste
(FPW) refurbished, recycled or donated
NIKE’s FPW target is accelerating our In FY22, we remained focused on learning
journey toward product circularity. We know how to create circular systems for FPW, which
product waste is an industry challenge. we define as product that is unsellable across
Scaled progress will require the footwear our supply chain (e.g., worn digital returns)
and apparel industry to come together to or taken back from consumers through our
develop pre-competitive solutions for the takeback programs. We also accelerated our
toughest barriers, including textile-to-textile capabilities to keep FPW out of landfill and
recycling, cost-efficient reverse logistics and incineration by refurbishing and reselling,
technology systems to unlock our ability to donating or recycling 3.1 million units of
close the loop for a truly circular ecosystem. finished product. Our goal is to continue
From setting up internal operations to this acceleration, maximizing product
enable circularity to learning how to offer refurbishment to extend the life of products
compelling takeback services to consumers through resale and reuse, and increasing
and working with marketplace partners to donation and recycling to keep units at their
innovate how we recycle product back into highest use for as long as possible.
new out-of-the-box solutions, our work
continues to both excite and challenge us.
FY20 Baseline 1.3M
Waste
Planet
To achieve this, we follow our Guiding NIKE REFURBISHED When the time has come to say goodbye
Principles of FPW management: to a pair of Nike Refurbished shoes,
customers can do their part to help keep
1 Keep product at its highest value Nike Refurbished extends the life of them out of landfills by choosing to donate
for as long as possible unsellable products (i.e., worn returns, or responsibly recycle them through our
cosmetically flawed products, e.g., stains) takeback programs.
2 Deliver innovative and creative
by taking products that cannot be restocked,
solutions that drive long-term
refurbishing them by hand and grading The Nike Refurbished footwear product line
business value
them as Like New, Gently Worn or Slightly launched in select stores in the U.S. in March
Imperfect. This new reverse logistics 2021. By the end of FY22, Nike Refurbished
3 Ensure a great consumer experience
operations process enables us to offer was live in 35 stores across the U.S. and
4 Be authentic and transparent these products at discounted prices at six stores in EMEA. We are encouraged
select NIKE Factory, Unite and Community by feedback from our consumers, who
5 Maximize local infrastructure
Stores. Product that is not eligible for are delighted to find unique styles at the
Nike Refurbished still has a chance at a right prices while knowing they are joining
Using a systems approach, we are
second life too, as we partner with donation NIKE in its sustainability journey. We also
implementing circular operations
consolidators, such as Good360, to donate celebrate the contributions from our Retail
(capabilities to enable extension of product
gently worn footwear to local communities and Operations teams to make these new
life or reuse of materials) in key locations
in need. Or, if it’s truly at the end of wearable offerings possible. As such, we plan to
and working with strategic partners to
use, we recycle it through our proprietary continue scaling this program in FY23.
receive, process and dispose of product
Nike Grind system into materials, which are
in accordance with its highest value in
then sold to third parties for different uses.
alignment with our product waste hierarchy.
Today, our product channels include Nike
Refurbished (consumer sales), the vAn
(internal employee sales), donation and
recycling. Energy recovery is being utilized
as a last resort. We recognize that managing
our own FPW is just one side of the equation,
and we seek to help consumers responsibly
manage the product they are no longer
using through consumer product takeback
programs (i.e., Reuse-A-Shoe and Recycle
and Donation).
Bot Initiated
Longevity Lab Nike
Town London
Waste
Planet
TAKING BACK In FY22, we expanded access to consumer
product takeback services to most of our
CONSUMER-WORN geographies, offering the service across
300 NIKE stores. While our expansion efforts
PRODUCT THROUGH have been successful, we’re learning we
need to improve awareness of this offering
TAKEBACK SERVICES so more consumers can take advantage
of this program, which gives consumers
a better option than throwing product
As consumers have limited options to donate away and enables more people to partner
or recycle worn products, for the past 25 with NIKE on our Move to Zero journey.
years, NIKE has offered a service called Through consumer insights, we have found
Reuse-A-Shoe (RAS) for consumers to bring that close to 80% of NIKE consumers are
their end-of-life footwear product back to interested in using our RAD service. Moving
NIKE stores so that it can be recycled into forward, we intend to expand access to
something new. As apparel and footwear such services, while also exploring ways
waste continues to grow, we are working to to integrate information about these
expand this offering and have introduced a services into digital and marketing plans
new Recycle and Donation (RAD) service, to improve utilization of these services and
which is an evolution of RAS that includes create seamless integration with the NIKE
apparel and offers a donation pathway member experience.
in addition to recycling. These consumer
takeback programs empower consumers to
drop off apparel and footwear at select NIKE
stores, and based on the condition and level
of wear, NIKE will either donate to nonprofit
partners or recycle in a more responsible
manner to divert end-of-life product waste
from landfill.
NIKE Hongdae
Waste
Planet
THE VAN DONATION
Product not fit for consumer sale (i.e., At NIKE, we continually look for opportunities
samples or products with quality issues) to bridge our work across People, Planet
is sold at a discount through our internal and Play. Our product donation program is a
employee website, The vAn. Our goal is to perfect example of this intersection. Not only
reduce volumes through this channel as we are we able to extend the life of products, but
continue improving manufacturing quality we are also able to deliver them to those who
and reduce the need for physical samples. need them most. When product is no longer
deemed sellable but still has a functional
life – or when unforeseen events impact our
communities – we work with consolidator
nonprofit organizations like Good360,
Soles4Souls, Good Sports and Delivering
Good to help deliver product where it’s
needed, in a responsible manner.
In FY22, we were able to donate nearly
1.02 million units to schools and community
organizations. An additional 45,000 units
were donated to nonprofit organizations
around the globe through the product
donation disposition channel. This product,
which would have otherwise been recycled or
destroyed, benefits the community by serving
the highest need, closest to source.
Waste
Planet
RECYCLING Additionally, in EMEA, Hooks Creative
designed a clothes hanger with 50% fluff
content and 50% non-NIKE recycled material
When product is truly at its end-of-life and that has been introduced to the entire
cannot be used again through resale or European Logistics Center campus and will
donation, our goal is to recycle the product start to roll out in other EMEA offices. We
through responsible end-of-life processes. have pursued multiple other destinations for
For footwear, recycling means sending recycled footwear FPW, specifically mixed
product through our state-of-the-art Nike foam and additional fluff grind. With a focus
Grind machines in the U.S. and EMEA. on sport surfaces and flooring, we work
After grinding up this product, materials closely with external companies to research
are separated by type (rubber, foam and textile and develop product offerings that can utilize
fluff) so that they can be incorporated into new these waste streams as feedstock.
items. In our other locations, where we don’t
have Nike Grind technology, we work with For apparel in geographies outside of the
providers to manage our end-of-life process. U.S., we work with third-party pre-processors
and recyclers to maximize recycling solutions.
We have been incorporating Nike Grind In FY23, we plan to expand apparel-
into products, retail spaces, workplace recycling capabilities to the U.S. as well.
environments, athletic facilities, skateboards We choose third parties based, in part, on
and more for nearly 30 years. That means the level of transparency of their processes
fewer materials in landfills, and more in the and their ability to help us achieve our
hands (and under the feet) of athletes. sustainability goals.
In FY22, we collaborated with Kirei, an Recycling technologies today may not be the
acoustic solutions company in California, recycling technologies of the future. Greater
to recycle our upper textile fluff material China is working with the Circular Economy
from finished product waste into their Air Research Institute of Tongji University to
Baffle product. The Air Baffle is an acoustic study advanced shoe- and apparel-recycling
element filled with Nike Grind fluff to help technologies to improve overall recycling
absorb sound in open spaces. We continued efficiency through heat separation and
to work with Playtop and Hero Flooring, artificial intelligence sorting systems. This will
among others, to recycle rubber from help us reduce inefficient manual processes
ground-up shoes into play surfaces and and improve overall recycling capacity. As
flooring, respectively. we continue the search for true, structural Cuong Luong
(right), a member of
and sustainable recycling solutions at scale
NIKE’s Responsible
for harder-to-recycle materials, we also work
Supply Chain team
with waste-to-energy vendors to responsibly
in Vietnam, talks
dispose of remaining materials. footwear recycling
options with Feng
Tay leadership.
Water
Planet
Freshwater use/kg textile
dyeing & finishing (L/kg)
2020 Baseline
84.36
Quantitative Target
25% reduction in freshwater usage
(L per kg) in textile dyeing and finishing
2025 Target
-25
For the past decade, the World Economic Without a robust water sustainability
Forum (WEF) has listed water crises program, textile industry suppliers will face
%
as one of the top five global risks that tough and costly decisions related to their
negatively impact economies and societies. businesses. NIKE is working to decouple
Historically, water has been available in business growth from constrained resources
the driest areas, and flooding patterns by minimizing our overall environmental
were predictable across the globe. As the footprint. We can’t do this without the
climate warms, the world is beginning to commitment of suppliers, and encourage
see more extremes – which often means every facility to pursue – in terms of
too little or too much water. An increase in business growth, productivity and social
population, industrial and socio-economic responsibility – a more sustainable and
growth will add more stress to existing water-efficient future.
water resources, resulting in scarcity and
competition. Increasing droughts contribute
to wildfires and other problems. A decrease
in the water table can degrade water quality,
often leading to increasing concentrations
of minerals and salts that are expensive to
treat, resulting in increased cost. On the
other extreme, more violent storms are
already making flooding a new risk in areas
that didn’t worry about it before. Experiences
around the world – water rationing in Taiwan;
droughts in Brazil, California and India –
demonstrate the WEF’s concerns are real.
FY21 FY22
-7 -9
% %
78.68 76.91
Water
Planet
Water (Million Liters)
We are making progress toward The Tong Hong Tannery in China reduced
achieving our 2025 freshwater-reduction its freshwater use in FY22 by 12.4% from
target through our strategy, which has its FY20 baseline through several process-
Textile Dyeing and Finishing57 FY20 FY21 FY22
three components: improvement strategies. The Tong Hong
site consolidated its product order category Municipal/City Water to Facility 13,277.6 13,067.5 13,386.7
1 Create Awareness among suppliers and used higher-manufacturing-efficiency
Ground Water 4,804.5 4,391.4 5,795.4
that water crises are real, and it’s equipment to achieve the exact product
necessary to reduce our dependence specification, which resulted in reduction
Surface Water 2,102.4 1,466.9 1,733.3
on freshwater. of water and energy usage. Also, the facility
optimized the wastewater treatment system Rainwater Collection 34.5 16.5 12.8
2 Drive Commitment from suppliers to
to produce higher wastewater-reuse quality,
do their part to reduce their freshwater Condensate Use 390.6 395.7 305.3
which helped the site reduce its overall
use. We collaborated with suppliers to
freshwater consumption by increasing
Total Freshwater Use 20,609.5 19,338.0 21,233.4
establish freshwater reduction-targets
the recycling rate.
that will help us reach our 2025 target.
The Sadesa facility reduced its water
3 Build Capability among suppliers so
intensity by 20.8% in FY22 from its FY20
they are executing their freshwater-
baseline with investments in advanced
reduction targets using generally
oxidation and recycling technologies in the
accepted best practices for water
wastewater treatment plant. Since FY15, the
management and wastewater
number of wastewater-recycling installations
treatment. The indications are that
has continued to increase to the point where
training and adoption of best practices
wastewater recycling is a standard feature of
are consistent and robust.
any new construction by suppliers.
In FY22, we reduced freshwater usage per
In FY22, our in-scope facilities faced
kilogram by 9% from our FY20 baseline by
headwinds largely brought on by impacts
implementing process improvements and
of COVID-19, resulting in the stalling of
investments in recycling technologies, with
certain water-reduction projects as well
the support of seven of our supply chain’s
as staffing issues. Nevertheless, suppliers
top 10 water users. Among them, we saw
displayed continued commitment to their
notable reductions from their respective
sustainability targets and were able to rise
FY20 baselines achieved from facilities.
above these difficulties to still achieve the
overall collective water reduction target of
9% from the FY20 baseline for FY22. Responsible water
management at
Chang Shin’s
footwear facility
in Indonesia
includes wastewater
treatment and
57 Includes focus suppliers only. Focus suppliers represent key suppliers involved in the dyeing and/or finishing of
materials, which directly support footwear and apparel finished product assembly. recycling.
Water
Planet
Water restored (L) FY21 FY22
2.06 3.72
B B
2025 Target
13
B
Quantitative Target
13 billion liters restored through a portfolio
of projects that support long-term
resilience for water-stressed ecosystems
and communities within our extended
cotton supply chain
Cotton accounts for 69% of NIKE’s water Our strategy to reach our target is driven
footprint and is directly impacted by water by collaboration with conservation leaders.
stressors such as drought, water scarcity, We work in partnership with globally
floods and pollution. In addition to effects recognized environmental nongovernmental
on the cotton supply, local communities – organizations (NGOs), including The Nature
including those within water basins that Conservancy (TNC) and World Wildlife Fund
support cotton farming – and ecosystems (WWF), who help us define project scope and
are disproportionately affected by these strategy, implement interventions in priority
water stressors. We continue to adapt to basins, and monitor and report on the social
uncertainty as global climate patterns shift, and environmental impacts generated from
geopolitical issues emerge and other natural restoration activities.
phenomena arise leading to shifts in project
scope and impact. Creating water resilience Through these partnerships, we are
in our cotton sourcing is critical to helping prioritizing multi-year projects that
NIKE continue to produce products in a way focus on three primary objectives:
that protects the workers and ecosystems
that make up our supply chain. 1 Water restoration and protection
2 Water for productive use
We aim to restore 13 billion liters by 2025 in
water-stressed regions within our extended
3 Water access
cotton supply chain – including Australia,
India and Pakistan.
FY20 Baseline 0.65B
Water
Planet
Water restored (L)
In Australia, NIKE supported the second From FY20-22, NIKE’s support contributed
phase of a two-phase project aimed at to the inundation of 47,277 hectares in the
FY20 FY21 FY22
adding 5,000 hectares of wetland to a region, a much larger area than expected.
conservation covenant in the Murray– This in turn supported a massive colonial
Australia 650M 2.05B 3.71B
Darling Basin in partnership with TNC. bird breeding event and a second breeding
The combined phases of the project assisted event for many pelicans in the region. India 0 11.7M 11.7M
in returning the land from commercial use
Total 650M 2.06B 3.72B
back to its natural state, restoring 3.71 billion In addition, the project facilitated enhanced
liters of water in FY22, through three major wetland fringe vegetation growth and
interventions: improved habitat for a range of species,
resulting in feral animal control and
1 Low-impact grazing: converting land increased sightings of critically endangered
previously used for growing by moving fauna, such as the plains-wanderer,
grazing animals to areas based on a vulnerable ground-dwelling bird.
vegetative maturity to reduce runoff
and increase average vegetative cover The project also supported ongoing efforts
to enable a return of land management to
2 Conservation covenant: protecting
the Nari Nari Tribal Council – the Aboriginal
the property from being used for
landowners in the region. This included
commercial agricultural practices,
the finalization and launch of “Gayini: Our
allowing for the regeneration of more
Home,” a guidebook of native plant and
natural conditions, enhancement
animal species found on the land by the
of existing forested areas and
Nari Nari Tribal Council.
improvement of both water quality
and water quantity
In Pakistan, NIKE also laid the groundwork
in FY22 for additional water restoration
3 Wetland restoration: rehydration of the
projects in the Indus River basin with WWF.
floodplain in areas previously designed
This work included implementing integrated
for commercial production, contributing
watershed management strategies to
to the creation of a new wildlife habitat
improve overall water quantity and quality,
and increased infiltration to local
educate and support farmers with water-
groundwater sources
efficient agricultural practices and help
protect endangered species native to
the region.
Chemistry
Planet
# of priority chemistries with FY21 FY22
clean chemistry alternative 0 0
2025 Target
10
Quantitative Target
Adopt clean chemistry alternatives
for our 10 priority chemistries across
our supply chain
Every NIKE product leverages chemistry to To develop NIKE’s chemical prioritization
drive innovation, influence design, improve strategy, we consider the health and
performance and achieve our sustainability environmental impacts of the individual
ambitions. While the essential role of chemicals as well as chemistry mixtures
chemistry within our business is clear, we used to make our products. We closely
recognize that it must be well managed to track the continually evolving regulatory
maximize its value and minimize possible landscape and review the latest scientific
risks. To accomplish this, we have developed findings to help us to proactively influence
a chemical prioritization strategy that chemistry decisions in our supply chain.
integrates our approach to global regulatory Finally, we assess how chemicals are used,
compliance with proactive efforts to scale including the volumes, types of application
and integrate cleaner chemistry seamlessly and availability of safe alternatives, to help
into our business. us set realistic targets for the future.
Chemistry
Planet
The foundational requirements in NIKE’s training and effective remediation programs
Code of Conduct set the basis for our as well as driving engagement with industry
chemistry strategy. Based on this policy, groups, we will continue to elevate these
all suppliers must properly manage capabilities and monitor implementation
chemistry and create approaches that across our supply chain.
help meet our Restricted Substances List
(RSL) and ZDHC Manufacturing Restricted In addition to our facility compliance
Substances List (MRSL) requirements. program focusing on chemicals
We continue to support development of management, use and disposal, we
transparent guidelines, tools and training continue more than 20 years of chemistry
programs within our industry through work engagement and implementation with
in groups such as Apparel and Footwear suppliers through our Chemistry Playbook
International RSL Management and and RSL program. The NIKE Chemistry
the ZDHC Foundation. Together, these Playbook & RSL represents our approach to
programs continue to accelerate us toward managing chemicals throughout the supply
realizing the vision of zero discharge of chain, from procurement of input chemistries
hazardous chemicals. that meet ZDHC MRSL requirements all the
way to testing thousands of materials and
Our facility compliance program includes finished goods annually.
significant requirements on chemicals
management and measurement that are We will continually strive to create
elevated through tools such as the FEM and innovations that support helping athletes
SLCP. Members of our supply chain are on perform their best while we move toward
a journey to continually improve their ability cleaner chemistry inputs and proactively
to manage chemistry safely and effectively, steward resources.
and we continue to raise the bar on our
foundational requirements. By creating
Materials suppliers
like Dong Jin Textile
in Indonesia manage
color and chemistry
with automated
precision.
Chemistry
Planet
10 PRIORITY
2025 Priority Chemical Phase-out Timelines Market access and fulfilling commitments
CHEMISTRIES
Scale clean chemistry approaches
with key suppliers to set a new bar
We created a list of 10 priority chemistries
where we have a target to go above and Lead industry to integrate clean chemistry
beyond our list of more than 400 substances alternatives in product & supply chain
that are tightly controlled within our RSL.
These priority chemistries solve specific
challenges that we have uncovered and help
us advance safer materials flowing into and
through a circular economy. Adopting these
FY21 FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25
cleaner chemistry alternatives is NIKE’s 2025
chemistry target.
Another critical part of our work to PFAS
scale cleaner chemistry is our chemical
assessment process. This embedded
Dimethyl formamide (DMFa)
process is used on new chemistries coming
into our supply chain and provides a
DCP (dicumyl peroxide)
consistent measure for compliance that can
be used across a variety of chemistry types.
Zinc Pyrithione
NPEOs
Formamide
Organic Solvents (VOCs)
Bisphenols
Formaldehyde
Neoprene
Chemistry
Planet
FY22 PROGRESS NIKE is also working to push suppliers Our goal is to reach over 80% DCP-free The presence of contaminant chemicals
in the supply chain to reduce the use of across all our footwear EVA foam in FY23, in recycled material streams is an ongoing
Dimethylformamide (DMFa). DMFa is a putting us in a good position to achieve our challenge that will be amplified as we
In FY22, we made significant progress common industrial solvent for chemical 100% DCP-free EVA foam target by 2025. diversify our recycled content streams (an
toward our per- and polyfluoroalkyl reactions used in the production of synthetic example of this is PFAS). The introduction
substances (PFAS) phaseout in water- and coated leather. We have worked with Neoprene58 (aka polychloroprene) is a of new material streams that haven’t
repellent finishes in all product engines. material and chemical suppliers to trial family of synthetic foam rubbers that are traditionally been used in our industry
In 2017, we set a target to eliminate all DMFa alternatives, and are impressed by the produced by polymerization of chloroprene. can be challenging from a sustainable
Perfluorochemical-based finishes from our amount of innovation in this space. We have Neoprene materials can be manufactured chemistry perspective.
product line. We have achieved our PFAS achieved 100% DMFa-free coated natural using substances that are skin sensitizers,
phaseout goal without sacrificing our high leathers, and we have seen strong adoption and in addition, the production of neoprene
durability and performance standards or of DMFa-free synthetic suedes. can have negative impacts on the climate.
aesthetics. Throughout this phaseout, we For our neoprene target, we identified
completed thorough chemistry assessments However, we anticipate challenges meeting several alternatives that are aligned with our
on all PFAS alternatives to help us scale only our overall goal of being 100% DMFa-free by sustainable chemistry requirements. To slow
better chemistry across the supply chain. 2025. COVID-19-related slowdowns delayed continued proliferation of neoprene, we have
We continue to track toward our goal of essential research and development needed implemented a policy that styles introduced
100% PFAS-free durable water repellents to validate safe DMFa alternatives. Further, after 2023 will only use alternatives approved
through close collaboration with material we expect pricing and scaling challenges through our chemistry assessments.
and chemical suppliers. as suppliers work to build up scale for
DMFa-free materials. We are working cross- We are also scaling industry tools to capture
The final phase of our work to eliminate functionally to overcome these challenges and assess chemical inventory conformity
PFAS from our supply chain is phasing and eventually phase out the use of DMFa to the MRSL. While this will not give us
out of polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) in all NIKE materials. complete information on every substance in
membranes, commonly found in waterproof use at this time, it helps make sure that any
apparel and footwear. PTFE membranes use We have transitioned more than 70% of our MRSL-listed substance is prohibited from
PFAS chemicals in their production and may total EVA foam usage in footwear dicumyl intentional use. Future efforts to push for an
release PFAS at end-of-life under extreme peroxide (DCP)-free. DCP is a crosslinking industry approach that enables capture of all
conditions. We currently anticipate we will agent for polymers, including in EVA foam chemical details are a key area of focus.
be able to phase out PTFE membranes manufacturing, that can be problematic in
by the end of the 2024 calendar year. some environments.
58 Chemicals used in neoprene are also known carcinogens. In addition, the production of neoprene can contribute to climate change and volatile organic
compounds emitted in the chemical processing plants can be harmful to human health and the environment.
04 PL AY
136 Active Kids
143 Inclusive Community
147 Employee Engagement
153 Community Investment
Introduction
Play
All athletes* should benefit from the joy and
and movement of play. But we know that not
every child and not every community have
access to the same opportunities.
Girls are dropping out of sport at twice
the rate of boys, and systemic inequities
leave some communities in greater need.
focus our
That’s why we continue to
investments on leveling the playing field for
all athletes*, now and for future generations
to come. Because when everyone’s
included, that’s a win.
* If you have a body, you are an athlete. - Bill Bowerman, Co-Founder NIKE
Introduction
Play
At NIKE, we believe in the With more barriers to sport than
transformative power of sport to ever before, the world is moving
move the world forward. Creating less – leaving girls and kids from
a more active and healthier world marginalized communities, who
requires an inclusive approach. are disproportionately impacted,
on the sidelines. As a brand guided
We’re tackling systemic inequality by our values, we are uniquely
through our commitment to getting positioned to see the intersectional
kids active and building inclusive opportunities and leverage our
communities through these three resources to take action and create
key strategies: greater access to sport for all.
1 I ncreasing girls’ participation We know by driving inclusivity in
in play and sport spaces off the field, we can continue
to elevate equal participation on
2 R ecruiting and training
the field. That’s why in addition
more representative coaches
to supporting partnerships and
3 S upporting diverse leaders programs that get kids moving, we
who reflect the communities also invest in organizations that
they serve advance equality through economic
empowerment, education innovation
and social justice reform.
With our strategic focus, we will
continue to influence the future of
sport so that it can be a place where
everyone belongs. Our ambition is to
remove barriers to positively change
the culture of sport, with a lens
toward tomorrow.
Future Address
Play
TAhrDougDhoRut EmyS lifSe,I I’Nve Glear ned that there’s power in play. From my first
childhood races with friends in my hometown of Kingston, Jamaica, to
TwiHnniEng mFyU fiftTh U100R mEete rs title at the World Athletics Championships
last summer in Eugene, Oregon (and yes, Olympic gold medals in
with
between), I can confidently say that sport has made me stronger, both
Shelly-Ann
on and off the track. It’s made me a better athlete, a better teammate,
Fraser-Pryce
a better member of my community, and most meaningfully, a better
mother. And I hope it will do the same for you, too. When I was in high
school, there was a woman who saw something in me that I didn’t see
in myself. She invested in me and believed in my future. Her kindness lit
a fire, allowing me to dream bigger and inspiring me to make a similar
impact on other kids’ lives. That initial kindness eventually inspired me to
launch the Pocket Rocket Foundation to help young athletes in Jamaica
who also hope to reach the top of their sport. I went back to where
my journey began, now with the support of all of those who believe in
Play Future Address “May you learn from the wisdom I’ve been
lucky enough to experience first-hand: that
success neither begins nor ends with you.”
Throughout my life, I’ve learned that there’s power
in play.
From my first childhood races with friends in
my hometown of Kingston, Jamaica, to winning
my fifth 100 meters title at the World Athletics
Championships last summer in Eugene, Oregon
(and yes, Olympic gold medals in between), I can
confidently say that sport has made me stronger,
both on and off the track. It’s made me a better
athlete, a better teammate, a better member of
my community, and most meaningfully, a better
mother. And I hope it will do the same for you, too.
When I was in high school, there was a woman who
saw something in me that I didn’t see in myself.
She invested in me and believed in my future. Her
kindness lit a fire, allowing me to dream bigger and
inspiring me to make a similar impact on other kids’
lives. That initial kindness eventually inspired me
to launch the Pocket Rocket Foundation to help
young athletes in Jamaica who also hope to reach
the top of their sport. I went back to where my
journey began, now with the support of all of those experience first-hand: that success neither begins
who believe in me, including NIKE. It matters to me nor ends with you. Whose kindness has moved
that I’m able to make a difference and show up my you to action? Who has inspired you to dream
best self in all forms. bigger and achieve more, not just for yourself, but
for others?
My wish for you is to find the strength in play… to
find somewhere that will support you as an athlete, This much I know: we go faster, together. I’m not
and all that you are and will be. And may you slowing down anytime soon, and neither can you.
learn from the wisdom I’ve been lucky enough to We’ve still got plenty of barriers left to break.
With love,
Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce
Active Kids
Play
% of girl participation FY21 FY22
52 50
% %
Quantitative Target
Drive sustained community impact
by getting kids moving in our key
cities and sourcing backyards with
50% girl participation
In FY22, we focused on our key strategies to
accelerate greater change for girls – at scale.
First, to help increase girls’ participation
in sport in our key cities and employee
backyards, we continued to invest in new
play- and sport-based programs through
2025 Target
our partnerships with local community 50
organizations. Second, to create a global
and cultural shift, we collaborated with some %
of the most influential female athletes from
around the world to amplify girls’ voices and
the need to improve their sport experience.
We also partnered with renowned
institutions in the coaching space to create
industry-leading tools and training materials
that help coaches everywhere be more
inclusive and responsive to girls’ needs.
Active Kids
Play
375
As a result of these efforts, we directly to access play and sport – Latina girls – in
People Profile
helped nearly 760,000 kids to move – 50% two of the neighborhoods with the greatest
of whom were girls – through our community opportunity to close the gap in play equity:
partners’ diverse offering of play and sport Boyle Heights and Watts.
K programs. Knowing the critical role coaches
play, we also shared our best practices In Mexico City, we launched Jugamos
and tools with more than 17,000 coaches Juntas, an initiative designed to give girls
and helped train nearly 9,000 of them in access to safe, inclusive and fun experiences
delivering fun, inclusive experiences to in play and sport, in collaboration with
Miki Morimoto
girls engaged in local play and all kids. Laureus Sport for Good. The three-year
investment provides funds to strengthen five Director, Asia Pacific
sport programs this year
Around the world, NIKE is helping to increase community organizations so they can expand
Social & Community
girls’ participation in sport locally – in our key opportunities for girls to play. Jugamos
Impact
cities and employee backyards – by investing Juntas also emphasizes the important role
in partnerships with more than 120 grassroots that coaches play in inspiring girls on and off
community organizations that deliver play- the field. The program will recruit and train
and sport-based programs. coaches, with a focus on women, to help
“ I feel empowered when I think
them create positive environments where
about the opportunities to help
In Los Angeles, we teamed up with the Play girls and boys play and thrive together.
girls get active because of the
Equity Fund to launch LA Made to Play
incredible impact we can have on
Neighborhoods. The three-year, $1.5 million In Paris, we extended our partnership with
their lives as they find their own
program empowers 13 grassroots youth sport-based community organization Sport
power through sport and play.
play and sport organizations through an dans la Ville, maintaining our commitment
Together, we’re addressing barriers
innovative, place-based approach that to increasing girls’ access to play and sport.
to sport for girls in Japan and
focuses on neighborhoods and brings Through our support, Sport dans la Ville
beyond and making movement
together local partners to leverage resources provides sport activities, cultural events and
more accessible to girls.”
and tackle root causes that prevent girls from workshops to more than 2,000 girls locally.
participating in play and sport. To create the
most transformative change, the programs
focus on LA youth who are the least able
Active Kids
Play
NIKE also supports Paris-based PLAY Active Modoo takes a child-centered
International, which uses sport as a vehicle approach and offers fun, physical activities
for education and social change to help to children ages 7–12 by providing positive
drive their commitment toward equality coaching skills to professional coaches
and empowerment for girls. Over the and teachers as well as parents and NIKE
past four years, NIKE’s support of the employees. The program also tackles a
Active Schools program has helped train common misperception among parents
hundreds of primary school teachers to – that increasing a child’s amount of
inspire thousands of children to play. And physical activities leads to lower academic
by pioneering innovative solutions like their achievement. The program offers workshops
Playlab program, their experts are helping and physical activity sessions to educate
level the playing field by creating games and parents on the benefits of physical activity
activities that encourage boys and girls to and demonstrate the proven link to
play together. increased concentration and kids’ overall
well-being.
NIKE is welcoming all kids to play through
our continued support of mixed-gender Since launching in China in 2019, Boundless
programs. NIKE’s new partnership and Girls, our innovative program that unleashes
program in Seoul is a good example of the potential of girls though the power
this. In FY22, we launched Active Modoo of sport, has reached over 90,000 girls
in partnership with ChildFund Korea and across more than 500 schools. Through a
We Meet Up Sports. The program’s name partnership with the China Foundation for
is inspired by its aim to help “modoo” – Rural Development (CFRD), the program
meaning “everyone” in Korean – get active has scaled to include 12 grassroots
by providing equal access to play and sport. organizations across China. And together
with China Children and Teenagers’
Fund and Enjoy Volunteering, we kicked
off our Boundless Girls Summer Camp
in nine locations, which brought nearly
120 university student volunteers to serve
as coaches and role models. The university
students and NIKE employees collectively
dedicated more than 10,000 hours to
inclusive play and sport sessions with the
girls, ensuring that everyone felt empowered,
supported and inspired.
Active Kids
Play
FY22 also marked our China team’s ninth In FY22, NIKE created a first-of-its-kind Nike
year in driving Active Schools, a program Athlete Think Tank to hear directly from our
developed in collaboration with China’s elite women athletes and global catalysts —
Ministry of Education and China Education representing different parts of the world,
Development Foundation. The initiative sport experiences and varying stages of
enables physical education (PE) teachers their careers and lives. Our goals were to
and staff to transform children’s sport learn from their unique experiences in sport,
experiences through innovative PE classes. better understand their needs and hear
Nationally, the program has reached more their ideas to improve the experience of
than 5.4 million kids and 12,000 PE teachers girls and women in sport. In response
across 10,500 schools. Despite community to athlete desire to directly impact the
lockdowns due to the ongoing COVID-19 communities and causes they care about,
pandemic, Active Schools still increased NIKE invested $1.3 million through Charities
the number of primary school PE teachers Aid Foundation America in order to support
reached by generating digital capacity- organizations identified by Nike Athlete Think
building content and by empowering Tank members. Collectively, this powerful
teachers who were awarded the prestigious group of organizations champion a sense
Active Schools Innovation Award to develop of belonging for women, girls and other
their own social media content showcasing marginalized community members
fun coaching tips, inspiring other teachers — on and off the playing field.
and coaches and garnering nearly
seven million views. Additionally, in our EMEA region, we
partnered with more elite athletes to
To continue to help remove barriers for create positive impact in our communities.
girls and women in sport, we partnered With a shared vision to inspire the next
with some of the world’s most influential, generation and give kids more access
community-oriented athletes. to sport, we worked closely with Bebe
Vio, Ebrar Karakurt, Ramla Ali, Giannis
Antetokounmpo, John McAvoy and Rudy
Gobert to develop and support seven
programs directly impacting the lives of
6,000 kids from marginalized communities.
NIKE established
the Athlete Think
Tank to hear directly
from our female
athletes with the
goal of improving
the experience of
girls and women
in sport.
Active Kids
Play
Research shows that how a girl feels about The Tucker Center for Research on Girls
her coach is one of the most important & Women in Sport at the University of
factors determining whether she keeps Minnesota is a preeminent interdisciplinary
playing sports. That’s why we’re helping research center leading a global effort to
to recruit and train more representative accelerate change for girls and women
coaches, and it’s why we’re investing in in sport. The Tucker Center’s research
coaching tools that help coaches create consistently informs coaching across the
positive, inclusive environments for all kids, U.S. and around the world, making it a key
especially girls. partner for NIKE in fulfilling what is a critical
need for coaches: coaching tools that
A recent survey focused on girls’ attitudes address gender biases and stereotypes
found that 67% of girls and young women and keep 11–17-year-old girls from dropping
ages 7–21 felt more sad, anxious or worried out of sport. Together with the Tucker
because of the pandemic59. Because we Center, we began the development of an
know the need to focus on mental health industry-first online coaching tool called
is so important NIKE became the founding “Coaching HER” – our most comprehensive,
partner of The Center for Healing and evidence-based and pilot-tested resource
Justice through Sport (CHJS), a nonprofit on coaching girls. Coaching HER, now
organization fueling a movement to bring available online, is designed to help
research-backed, healing-centered keep girls in sport. It expands on NIKE’s
sport training to youth coaches across robust collection of free, downloadable
North America. With help from CHJS, coaching resources available on nike.com/
NIKE is training many of its retail store madetoplay: the Made to Play Coaching Girls
employees who serve as NIKE Community Guide, Coaching for Belonging, Sports Bra
Ambassadors to coach and inspire kids in Playbook and Hijab Playbook.
their communities. We also offered trainings
to our corporate employees, North America
Made to Play partners and consumers
through our NIKE Brand channels.
NYC NIKE
59 https://www.girlguiding.org.uk/globalassets/docs-and-resources/research-and-campaigns/girls-attitudes-survey-2021-report.pdf Coaching Summit
Future Address
Play
AFiftDeenD yeRarsE aSgoS, mINultipGle p rofessional women’s tennis events in China
seemed impossible. Today there are more than 10. This rapid expansion
TofH noEt o nFlyU tenTnUis, RbutE a lso the rise of women’s sport in my country
gives me more hope for the next generation than I ever could have
with
imagined. When I hear people say that I am part of the rise of tennis
Li Na
in China, I am humbled and I don’t take it for granted. That’s why
I’ve committed to continuing my work off the court, building training
programs for the next generation of Chinese tennis players. I may be
the first Grand Slam singles champion from Asia but I certainly won’t be
the last, if I have anything to do with it. Since announcing my retirement
in 2014, I’ve had a lot of time to think about what I can do to push
the conversation about women in sports further. I’ve spent my career
alongside greats like Serena, endlessly inspired by her courage, talent
and strength. Women like Serena have taught me the power of using
your voice to level the playing field for female athletes of all ages. While
Play Future Address “I believe we are collectively moving in the
right direction. What’s key is that we never
let up. We can’t. You can’t.”
Fifteen years ago, multiple professional women’s
tennis events in China seemed impossible. Today
there are more than 10. This rapid expansion of
not only tennis, but also the rise of women’s sport
in my country gives me more hope for the next
generation than I ever could have imagined.
When I hear people say that I am part of the rise of
tennis in China, I am humbled and I don’t take it for
granted. That’s why I’ve committed to continuing
my work off the court, building training programs
for the next generation of Chinese tennis players.
I may be the first Grand Slam singles champion
from Asia but I certainly won’t be the last, if I have
anything to do with it.
I am proud of the work I do with NIKE and the role
the company has played to recruit and keep girls
Since announcing my retirement in 2014, I’ve had
in sport, and I know the momentum will only grow.
a lot of time to think about what I can do to push
A truly meaningful experience for me has been
the conversation about women in sports further.
supporting Boundless Girls, a program dedicated
I’ve spent my career alongside greats like Serena,
to helping girls unlock barriers to sport participation
endlessly inspired by her courage, talent
and embrace their love of the game, regardless of
and strength.
their backgrounds.
Women like Serena have taught me the power of
When you’re old enough to look back 15 years
using your voice to level the playing field for female
and see the way that China and our world have
athletes of all ages. While every country is in a
changed for women in sports, I hope you see the
different place on that journey, I believe we are
continued progress I have been lucky to witness,
collectively moving in the right direction. What’s
so that you may understand how fast things can
key is that we never let up. We can’t. You can’t.
progress when there is a shared vision for making
There are too many opportunities for our youth
the world a better place.
– especially the next generation of girls – still
With love,
to come.
Li Na
Inclusive Community
Play
$ invested
2025 Target
Quantitative Target
125
Invest $125 million to support
$ M
organizations working to level
the playing field and address
racial inequality
We are working to help create a world where
equal opportunity exists both on and off the
field. In FY22, we expanded our efforts to
address systemic barriers by deepening our
partnerships with organizations that focus
FY22 Cummulative
on addressing inequality. These efforts
33 69.6
are reflected in our total investment of $33 $ M $ M
million in the fiscal year. That investment
includes $15 million toward our Black
Community Commitment (BCC) from NIKE,
Inc. and Jordan Brand in North America,
which was amplified by another $5 million
from Michael Jordan personally (not
included in the total for this target). We also
invested a further $18 million to advance
FY21
inclusivity and equality.
36.6
$ M
Inclusive Community
Play
OUR BLACK Further investment was made in an Jordan BCC − Management Leadership for Tomorrow
additional 50 local organizations in seven In FY22, within the $15M BCC investment, accelerates career pathways to excellence
COMMUNITY U.S. cities where NIKE employees live and Jordan Brand granted $5 million to and changes employer practices.
work – Boston; Chicago; Los Angeles; community organizations. These
COMMITMENT Memphis; New York City; Portland, OR; investments were amplified by a personal − The Center for Black Educator
and St. Louis. An additional seven grantees donation of $5 million by Michael Jordan (not Development increases the number
were based in Atlanta, Houston, Miami, included in the total for this target) to deliver of Black educators and creates healthy,
In 2020, NIKE, Converse, Jordan Brand and Philadelphia and Washington, D.C.. $10M collectively between Jordan Brand supportive publicschool environments
Michael Jordan committed a combined and Michael Jordan. for Black students who need it most.
Partner Highlight: Pensole Lewis College
$140 million over 10 years for investment in
of Business and Design
and support of organizations addressing These FY22 investments reach across Rounding out the Jordan BCC investments
racial inequity for Black Americans. As part A BCC grantee uniquely positioned at the spaces of Institutional Grants (macro- were 24 new community grantees in FY22
of this commitment, NIKE, Inc. will invest the intersection of diversity and design is level organizations with national reach), across nearly 20 U.S. cities, in addition
$40 million over four years with a focus Pensole Lewis College of Business and Community Grants at the grassroots level, to a number of new Jordan Family Grant
on economic empowerment, education Design. In 2013, Lewis College of Business and Jordan Family Grants (in partnership organizations. From the Jayson Tatum
innovation and social justice reform. Jordan (its original name), based in Detroit, closed with Jordan Family athletes and influencers) Foundation, 100 Black Men of Metropolitan
Brand and Michael Jordan will invest $100 its doors. Former NIKE footwear designer St. Louis, the Nigel Sylvester Foundation and
million over 10 years supporting the pillars Dr. D’Wayne Edwards reopened the school New Jordan BCC Institutional Grant partners Black Mother’s Forum (nominated by WNBA
of economic justice, education, narrative under its new name and established Pensole were welcomed into the initiative such as: athlete, Kia Nurse) – Jordan Community and
change, and social justice. as a pipeline Historically Black College and Family Grants continued to drive sustainable
University (HBCU) for career education and − Next Gen Personal Finance expanded change at the local level.
This unique commitment taps into the power professional development in the product its financial literacy curriculum to 498,000
of three iconic brands within the NIKE, creation industry. The college is Michigan’s students and 639 high schools across
Inc. portfolio to address systemic racism first and only HBCU and is the first design- the U.S.
in distinct approaches designed to drive focused HBCU in the U.S.
greater collective impact. − The YWCA of Metropolitan Chicago
City Highlight: Memphis
TechGYRLS program provided access
For FY22, as part of the $15 million total Memphis is home to NIKE’s North America to opportunities in STEM for 200 girls in
contribution to the Black Community Logistics Campus and represents our local communities.
Commitment, NIKE invested $10 million second-largest employee population in the
to support 11 national organizations, U.S., after NIKE’s WHQ. In FY22, we proudly − The Hidden Genius Project trains
including new grantees: four in the education made investments that supported nonprofit and mentors Black male youth with
innovation space (namely, Pensole Lewis organizations serving kids and communities technology education, entrepreneurship
College of Business and Design, Son of across the city. These efforts benefited local and leadership skills.
a Saint, All Star Code and Big Brothers schools, youth sport organizations and the
Big Sisters of America) and the Equal National Civil Rights Museum.
Justice Initiative, which prioritizes social
justice reform.
WNBA athlete,
Kia Nurse
Inclusive Community
Play
Converse Partner Highlight: InnerCity Weighlifting “O ur partnership with
Converse is proud to make inclusive Our partnership with ICW demonstrates
progress in its headquarters city of Boston, how these efforts help to drive meaningful NIKE and Converse not
donating nearly $1 million in FY22 to serve change. ICW is a non-profit on a mission
Black communities through a robust to amplify the voice and agency of people only brings in resources
community partner portfolio focused on who have been most impacted by systemic
positive youth development. We partner racism and mass incarceration. In FY22, and opportunity to our
with the American Civil Liberties Union NIKE provided funding through our Black
of Massachusetts, Citizens for Juvenile Community Commitment for ICW’s core organization, it broadens
Justice, Roca Inc., Youth Guidance and programming as well as content-creation
InnerCity Weightlifting (ICW). Our efforts help classes and equipment for their staff. In our community.”
to reimagine youth justice in Massachusetts addition to the grant funding, Converse
and increase access to opportunity for youth incorporated ICW into our return-to-work
–Jon Feinman
from historically excluded communities. fitness activations. This programming
Executive Director and Founder
allowed for ICW trainers to directly interact
at InnerCity Weightlifting
Converse drives grassroots impact by with Converse employees and build social
working together with employee resource capital, a proven model for disrupting current
groups and employees to develop authentic systems of segregation, isolation
strategies that are informed by local needs. and racism.
In FY22, Converse began to co-create “It [the Black Community Commitment
development programs alongside grant] and our partnership with NIKE and
community partners, such as The Possible Converse not only bring in resources
Zone’s Apparel Intensive, a tuition-free and opportunity to our organization, they
program that brings high school students broaden our community. They broaden what
from under-resourced communities through is possible, all while helping to remove the
Converse’s apparel process – from design blame of an individual, and instead putting
to development to marketing – to drive an appropriate focus on the environment,”
awareness and real-life experience around says Jon Feinman, Executive Director and
the types of careers that are possible within Founder at ICW. “The financial support and
the industry. The program was facilitated brand support amplify the community at
by 18 Converse employees who worked ICW. They energize and motivate us. They
with passion and pride to deliver a bespoke make us know that we are in this together.
experience for these students. That we have partners to lean on, who
expand the impact that happens at ICW
beyond our immediate reach.”
Inclusive Community
Play
INCLUSIVE
COMMUNITY
INVESTMENTS
People Profile
Alongside BCC, NIKE is proud to invest
$18 million in grants that drive an inclusive
community for all. In FY22, our support
expanded to include nonprofits outside the
U.S., dedicated to creating a better and more
equitable future for historically marginalized
communities across EMEA and APLA. Felicia Wasson
Director of Social &
In EMEA, we’re supporting organizations
that are advancing equality through four Community Impact,
dimensions of diversity: race and ethnicity,
Inclusive Community
LGBTQIA+, gender and disability. As an
Portfolio
example of the many organizations driving
unparalleled work in creating a more
inclusive community, we support London-
“ I view it as a responsibility to myself
based organizations Disability Sports
and my community to contribute to
Coach, Not A Phase and Sporting Equals.
a more equal and just society, and
this includes my role at NIKE. I have
In FY22, NIKE also provided platforms
the honor of working with nonprofit
for partners to have solution-based
partners to remove barriers to economic
conversations with one another and direct
empowerment, create access to
access to leaders across the NIKE business.
education, and elevate opportunities to
Through two virtual summits – Black &
create the next generation of leaders and
Boundless and Heritage Heroes – we
build capacity to fight social injustice.”
gathered a total of more than 50 partners
for inspiring conversations and innovative
workshops, and provided new tools and
resources designed to empower and
celebrate NIKE’s community of change-
makers, partners and NIKE employees.
London-based
organization, Not A
Phase helps uplift the
trans community.
Employee Engagement
Play
% of employees engaged FY21 FY22
in their community 35 35
% %
Quantitative Target
Increase the number of employees
engaged in their communities
to a minimum of 35%
50 years ago, NIKE was founded by a coach We hosted an Appreciation Day in our offices
and an athlete. That legacy has shaped our around the world to inspire employees to
company today and inspires the future we’re give back to their communities through
creating. There’s a coach in all of us – and coaching. At our WHQ in Oregon, four-time
throughout the year, we gave our employees Olympic gold medalist Sanya Richards-
around the world the opportunity to tap Ross and Coaching Peace founder Diana
into the power of coaching and share their Cutaia co-hosted a day full of coaching
passion for sport with the next generation. conversations with NIKE and Jordan Brand
As employees returned to the workplace athletes and fun and inclusive play and sport
at the end of the fiscal year, giving them activities. We invited more than 35 nonprofit
opportunities to impact their communities partners from the Portland metro area to
was the perfect way to welcome them back connect with employees about volunteer
and celebrate NIKE’s culture of community. and coaching opportunities. Around the
world, we provided thousands of employees
2025 Target
with coach trainings as well as virtual and
35
in-person volunteer opportunities to put
their learnings into practice with community
%
partner organizations.
Employee Engagement
Play
Our employee giving platform, Give Your For the fifth year in a row, we celebrated
Best, continues to serve as the strongest Giving Tuesday by encouraging employees
measure of our employees’ engagement around the world to give – with the Nike
in their communities. In FY22, amid the Foundation offering a double match for all
COVID-19 pandemic and community employee donations made on the Give Your
lockdowns, 35% of our global employee Best platform. More than 2,600 employees
population engaged with Give Your Best directed $10 million to 2,275 organizations,
to help deliver NIKE’s Purpose. More than which was a 43% increase in giving from the
7,000 NIKE employees gave to nearly previous year.
4,000 organizations around the world.
Employees directed $20 million with the To help employees across China donate
Nike Foundation’s employee-matching gift on Giving Tuesday – and beyond – our
program to support the causes, nonprofits NIKE Greater China team launched an
and schools they care about most. More industry-leading, China-specific extension
than 2,200 employees from 28 different of our global Give Your Best platform to
countries volunteered, largely through help activate the annual day of giving for
virtual programming, over 62,000 hours in employees there. As a unique offering
their communities, earning reward dollars by a global company, this NIKE platform
that employees can give to the nonprofit created by, and for, our local Greater China
of their choice. Employees in Laakdal, teammates, with special consideration
Belgium, home to our European Logistics to local regulations, enables mainland
Campus, were among our most active China employees to donate and connect
volunteers, committing nearly 6,000 hours with volunteer opportunities in their
to their communities. local communities.
Appreciation Day
at NIKE WHQ
Employee Engagement
Play
A key enabler of our commitment to In FY22, as the COVID-19 pandemic athletes in the grant selection process,
coaching and helping all kids achieve persisted and school and community inviting them to vote on the organizations
their full potential, the NIKE Community programs remained closed, NCA selected, with more than 241 retail store
Ambassador (NCA) program empowers in-person volunteer opportunities were employees across the U.S. engaged.
NIKE retail store employees to volunteer also suspended to focus on the health of Additionally, the program expanded to
with kids on a consistent basis as coaches our employees and community members. Berlin and Tokyo. In FY22, we provided
in their local communities. NCAs bring to To continue a spirit of volunteering, the $1.5 million in grants to support active,
life fun and informed coaching strategies NCA program pivoted to enhanced virtual inclusive, community-based initiatives
to create an inclusive environment for all training offerings and placed an emphasis with more than 160 local organizations.
kids, inspiring them to be active for life, on NCA leadership development. Plans
because an active generation means a were made to expand the number of Launched in 2015, the Jordan Wings
more equitable and better future. Since Elevated Community Champions in FY23, program provides access to opportunity
FY16, more than 14,500 NCAs from nearly a role created in FY20 that is responsible to global youth, serving communities
900 different stores in 648 cities around for building relationships with community across the U.S., China, and France in
the world have volunteered to coach kids partners and store leadership and leading FY22. In China, youth in undeveloped
in their communities, resulting in more than program communication. areas were supported by pairing them
270,000 volunteer hours. with employees who served as program
The NIKE Community Impact Fund (NCIF) mentors. In total, the program has
The NCA program also serves as a is our employee-led grant-making program supported more than 2,800 high school
pathway for leadership development and that supports organizations creating active youth through 511 employee mentors –
career growth. By becoming an NCA, communities and providing access to play 65% of whom were female – dedicating
retail store employees learn critical and and sport. NCIF empowers employees in the more than 110,000 volunteer hours to the
transferable in-store and out-of-store skills, U.S., Canada, Europe and Japan to bring program. In FY22, as we celebrated the 25th
including communicating with vision and their purposes to life in their communities anniversary of the Jordan Brand in China,
purpose, fostering effective teamwork, by involving them in the grant-selection the Jordan Wings program innovated to
valuing differences, thinking strategically process. This employee-led, neighborhood- new heights, launching the Jordan Wings
and building trust across teammates, focused approach allows us to support local, summer internship program, which provides
leaders and partners. The leadership skills grassroots organizations that are driving outstanding graduates with internship
they acquire through the program better positive, lasting change and to make play opportunities within the Jordan Brand team.
prepare them for elevated roles within our possible for all kids and the community.
stores or offices. In FY22, the NCIF program included store
NIKE Community
Ambassador
Coaches
Employee Engagement
Play
Converse’s youth engagement model
is designed to encourage meaningful
engagement between employees and
our community partners through skills-
based volunteering, team volunteering and
networking. In FY22, Converse employees
volunteered more than 950 hours, including
one-of-a-kind creative opportunities for
youth, like the design and development
of the 2022 All-Star Weekend Celebrity
Game jerseys.
Young creatives like Sofia Liashcheva
and Andre Weiss were invited from the
Las Fotos Project and Boston’s Institute
of Contemporary Art to capture the entire
creative process. To help design the East
team uniforms, self-taught artist Abel
Teclemariam, an 18-year-old member of
Converse community partner The Possible
Zone, drew inspiration from street art and
murals all around the East Coast. Thirteen
year-old Boyle Heights Arts Conservatory
member Nestor “Lil Nes” Hernandez created
the West team jersey’s design, which paid
homage to the 1990s, basketball and the
NBA’s 75th anniversary.
“Lil Nes”
Hernandez
designing the
2022 All-Star
Weekend Celebrity
Game jersey for
the West team.
Coaching Diaries
Play
SPEN D A DAY WITH:
JESSICA SANTIAGO
Athlete Services Coach and NIKE Community Ambassador,
San Jose, California, USA
“You can use your own personal experience to
engage with kids. You don’t have to put on a
facade. If you can be your true self with confidence,
it shows kids they can, too.”
Play Coaching Diaries Getting going Coaching
Routine is really important for me because it The East Valley YMCA where our NCA team
impacts the rest of your day. Every morning, I start volunteers is a local organization we have
with a small walk around the block with my puppy, partnered with for three sport seasons. As a NCA
“Little Guy,” followed by a cup of coffee and a District Champion, I participate in trainings with
breakfast sandwich. This helps to center me as NIKE’s Social & Community Impact team and the
I commute to work. Center for Healing and Justice though Sport.
These trainings have helped me to share with our
Jessica Santiago knows the importance of
I always arrive to work 10–15 minutes prior to my athletes the importance of proper volunteer
showing up as a coach. start time to get myself ready for the business day. etiquette through digital training modules, and
By showing up early, I can spend time with my also help guide them during bi-monthly district
team and check in with everyone on a personal calls. All of this helps us to form long-term
“You know the girl who’s too scared to play? level. Acknowledging everyone by name and relationships with the kids we coach.
building connections is a part of my job that I
She’ll notice that you keep coming back, that you
thoroughly enjoy. I’ve been told you can hear A standout experience for me was coaching the
remember her name and that you know how far my laugh from the other side of the building. flag football team with The Boys & Girls Club.
There were 12 girls in the team, all super excited
she jumped last week. When kids feel seen, they
to compete. We went onto the field confident and
thrive.”
united as a team. And we won! It taught these girls
that they’re fully capable of anything they put their
Time to talk
minds to. That girls are winners. That’s something
Before joining NIKE, Jessica worked as a
I’ll pass on to every athlete I talk to.
Whether I’m working on the floor or in the office,
childcare director at her local YMCA. Putting my team knows they can always pull me aside for
a chat. A good leader has to start from a place of
her background in developmental psychology to
empathy and understanding, and I work hard to
practical use, she brought play, movement and demonstrate to my team the ways I can support
them. I can ask, “Are you feeling overwhelmed?”
creativity to kids. In the nine years since joining
and offer to cover their zone so they can take a
NIKE, Jessica has worked her way up from a break. Or “Do you need to pick up your kids from
school?” and schedule a touchbase to discuss an
seasonal employee to her role today as an Athlete
accommodation we can work into the system. We
Services Coach at her store in Milpitas, California. also have NIKE resources we can utilize such as
Lyra, which provides mental health support for
Her leadership is grounded in understanding her
employees. That was especially useful during the
team’s needs because she’s been in their shoes. first years of the pandemic, when so many people
were feeling overwhelmed.
In 2015, Jessica became a NIKE Community
Face to face
Ambassador (NCA). NCAs like Jessica volunteer
as a coach in their local community – globally,
When we return from a volunteering experience
we’re always excited to share the energy with
more than 6,700 store employees have served as
teammates back at the store. It’s just one way
volunteer youth coaches. After hours
we are so much more than “just a retail store.”
In my time working at NIKE, I’ve come to
know customers as friends. A father and his As a NIKE Community Ambassador, we
For Jessica, the NCA program is a full-circle Always growing daughter have been visiting NIKE since she was communicate the importance of consistency and
12. She’s now 18 and I have loved hearing about celebration every day. I take this mindset into my
experience. She’s back to volunteering at the
Once I’ve checked in with my team and ensured her successes over the years, in school and daily life. I used to compete on several urban hip
YMCA, where she and other NCAs spend everyone knows their priorities for the day, I work softball. I’ve also become close with a Physical hop teams in the Bay Area. Now I have a strong
on creating a daily and weekly checklist. The Education teacher. As a coach, I love hearing habit of daily movement by going to the gym.
five hours a week coaching kids. When she
checklist may range from scheduling a community about her programs and how she helps keep Exercising doesn’t just better my state of mind, it
coaches, she brings her personal experience practice, onboarding new hires, completing a kids engaged with sports, and that also helps makes me happy. Even if it’s just 10 minutes, it
sales forecast or individual conversations with me find what she needs as a customer. keeps me accountable. As a NIKE Community
and knowledge, helping to level the playing field
athletes. I make sure to set time aside with my Ambassador, we tell the kids we coach the same
for all. assistant head coach(es), too. thing: consistency is everything.
Community Investment
Play
% of prior-year pre-tax FY21 FY22
income invested 3.4 2.2
% %
4%
Quantitative Target
Invest 2% of prior-year pre-tax
income to drive positive impact
in communities
In FY22, Nike invested $149.4 million, which In FY22, NIKE supported more diverse
represented 2.24% of the prior year’s pre-tax communities than ever before, through
income – exceeding our 2025 target of 2% partnerships committed to supporting
investment. Given the long impact of COVID- girls and women from Black and brown
19 and increasing needs from communities communities beginning in North America
around the world, this represented NIKE’s and across our EMEA and APLA
largest annual community investment geographies. We brought the full breadth
to date. of NIKE’s support to the communities most
2025 Target
in need. A few examples that underscore 2
At NIKE, our commitment to women and girls our commitment include NIKE’s $4
runs deep. It encompasses our global key million investment in The Asian American %
cities and employee backyards. Since 2008, Foundation and our ongoing support
the Nike Foundation has supported the of HBCUs.
Girl Effect – and FY22 was no exception.
The Girl Effect is a movement that continues To help us create long-term, strategic
to enable the unique potential of adolescent impact, we evolved our grant-making
girls to end poverty for themselves, their process by providing more multi-year
families, their communities, their countries grants to leading organizations. Our aim
and the world. It aims to make girls visible is to increase the number of larger multi-
and change their social and economic year grants in the future, as we know that
environment by equipping them with sustained social and community impact
specific, powerful and relevant resources. extends beyond 12-month horizons.
Community Investment
Play
NIKE also responds to unforeseen events For FY22 – and across its Purpose-led
that significantly impact communities investments – this resulted in Jordan
around the world. In FY22, NIKE and the Brand serving communities through a
Nike Foundation provided more than network of more than 80 global community
$4.6 million toward disaster response efforts. partners and nearly $13 million in total
This included wildfire and hurricane relief in program support.
the U.S., flooding in the Henan province of
China and our response efforts to support FY22 for Converse signified serving more
displaced citizens of Ukraine. than 7,000 youth – 60% of whom identified
as female or gender non-conforming. In
To further support our communities, addition, Converse’s charitable contributions
NIKE donated 276,000 units of product grew by 77% over the prior fiscal year and
to schools and community organizations. contributed to the expansion of its portfolio
These products benefit the community and of community impact partners leveraging
help remove barriers to product that youth creativity and arts programming to drive
face when it comes to accessing play and positive youth development in Boston and
sport opportunities. Los Angeles. Throughout the year, Converse
invested in programs supporting youth
For Jordan Brand, FY22 was defined through art exploration and development.
by continuing to create pathways to These programs included Artists for
excellence and equity through its signature Humanity, Boyle Heights Arts Conservatory,
Jordan Wings program, and its ongoing Inner-City Arts, Las Fotos Project,
commitment to the Black community. In OrigiNation, Zumix and the teen programs
addition to the deepened investments made at the Institute of Contemporary Art Boston
through these spaces, through the growth and Museum of Fine Arts Boston.
of the Jordan Wings program, Jordan
Brand also ushered in a new era for access
in design education within key homes for
basketball culture.
In Paris, the Jordan Wings Design Program
started its work with three key community
partners – Prométhée Education, Le BAL’s /
Fabrique du Regard and Casa93, while the
U.S.-based end of the program paired Fuel
Up to Play 60 students with NFL athletes to
give them the opportunity to design custom
performance footwear for players.
Nigel Sylvester
Foundation
05
OUR R EPORTING
A PPROACH
156 Reporting Methodology
157 Issue Prioritization
161 Governance
162 Risk Management
Our Reporting Approach Reporting Methodology
We will refer to the fiscal year as FY22 and
REPORTING
the calendar year as CY22 in the report.
Unless otherwise stated, the baseline for
METHODOLOGY
our 2025 targets is FY20. Building on NIKE’s
reporting tradition since 2002, we expect to
continue reporting annual progress toward
This report has been prepared by NIKE
our social and environmental targets and
management under the oversight of the
priority issues.
Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability
& Governance Committee of the NIKE, Inc.
We have obtained external assurance on
Board of Directors. This report, our FY22
select reported metrics, including energy
SASB Summary document and all NIKE’s
consumption and renewable electricity use
historical Impact Reports are available at
in owned or operated facilities; Scope 1
about.nike.com/en/impact. This report
and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions; a
has been prepared in accordance with the
subset of Scope 3 GHG emissions including
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards.
commercial air travel, inbound logistics and
outbound logistics; and cumulative water
When we reference NIKE, Inc., unless
restoration funding. More information can
otherwise stated, we are referencing our
be found in the Appendix.
portfolio of brands including the NIKE Brand,
Jordan Brand and Converse. This report
covers NIKE’s fiscal year 2022 (June 1, 2021
through May 31, 2022).
LA Garage
NIKE WHQ
Our Reporting Approach Issue Prioritization
At NIKE, we’ll never stop striving for better
– whether it’s understanding the issues
we impact, the change we can lead or
the future we shape – together.
Each year, we update the results of our We assess priority issues in two ways:
issue prioritization by gathering direct and
indirect insights from key stakeholders, 1 By assessing the issues where
integrating internal metrics, benchmarking NIKE has the potential to impact the
key companies, monitoring regulations environment and society (outward
and performing news and media scans to impacts), seen on the Y axis
determine the most relevant issues for our
2 By assessing issues that could impact
company and the impacts most directly
NIKE’s business and financial success
linked to those issues.
(inward impacts), seen on the X axis.
We worked with Datamaran, an organization
that identifies and monitors ESG risks and Together, these views help determine which
opportunities on an ongoing basis – by issues are essential for NIKE to address and
scanning regulatory, media and corporate strategize around in order to minimize risk
disclosure environments. As in the previous and make the most progress toward positive
assessment, we commissioned GlobeScan change. Note that all of the issues identified
– an independent insights and advisory on the matrix are considered important to
company – to conduct the overall analysis NIKE. The top 16 issues in the upper right of
of our issue prioritization. the matrix are considered essential priorities.
We know that many, if not all, of these issues
are interconnected, with management of
our top issues being dependent on how we
manage other issues identified on the matrix.
Changes in FY22 from FY21 include one new
issue in Transparency and Reporting, and an
updated definition for Business Resilience.
Please see the table below for our 32 Priority
Reflecting Pool at
Issues and corresponding definitions.
NIKE WHQ
Our Reporting Approach Issue Prioritization
Overall Issues Prioritization Matrix 2022
Tier1
2
1
17
3
4
8
7
5
6
9
14
12
10
15
18
16
19
11
20
21
26
13
24
30
22
29
28
25
23
27
31
32
Tier 3 Tier 2
tcapmI
laicoS/latnemnorivnE
Tier 1
1. Forced Labor
2. GHG Emissions
3. Labor Rights in the Supply Chain
4. Supply Chain Management and Transparency
5. Employee Health and Safety
6. Employee Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
7. Health and Safety in the Supply Chain
8. Product Design and Circularity
9. Water Use and Replenishment
10. Transparency and Reporting
11. Business Resilience
12. Employee Engagement and Well-being
13. Ethical Business Practices
14. Renewable Energy and Use
15. Materials Sourcing
16. Data Privacy and Protection
Tier 2
17. Promotion of Social Inclusion
18. Material Waste
19. Air and Water Pollution
20. Workforce Development in the Supply Chain
21. Biodiversity and Land Use
22. Employee Development
23. Consumer Transparency and Safety
24. Responsible Use of Innovation and Technology
25. Brand Value Alignment
26. Healthy Lifestyles
27. Chemicals Management
Tier 3
28. Inclusive Products and Services
29. Advocacy and Public Policy Practices
30. Community Impact
31. Indirect Supplier Diversity
32. Environmentally Friendly Workplaces and Practices
Business Impact
Our Reporting Approach Priority Issues and Definitions
Issue Name Issue Definition
Advocacy & public Support or advance public policy that aligns with NIKE’s commitments on
policy practices environmental, social, and economic issues.
Air & water pollution Pollutants to air and water from NIKE’s operations, products and services, and
supply chain.
Biodiversity & land use Impacts to biodiversity and ecosystems, through transformation of habitats, land use,
and other business activities.
Brand value alignment Corporate activities, including sponsorship and partnerships, that align to NIKE’s values
on environmental, social and economic issues.
Business Resilience Promoting solutions and managing disruptions and impacts on the value chain
associated with climate change, public health, natural disasters, conflict, political
impacts, and other impacts.
Chemicals management Chemicals used in making materials, products and substances released to the
environment (air and water) that may be harmful or toxic to humans and ecosystems.
Community impact Sustained community impact in primary markets and sourcing backyards; philanthropic
efforts; employee involvement and volunteering in communities.
Consumer transparency Disclosures to customers and users about products and services; including
& safety safeguarding consumer health and safety when using products and reducing risk
of injury.
Data privacy & protection Safeguard privacy & personal data of customers, employees, and business partners.
Employee development Attracting and retaining talent; offering training and development for employees to build
capability and career opportunities.
Employee diversity, equity Fairness of treatment and compensation across all levels of the business; representation
& inclusion of female and minority employees in workforce, management & board.
Employee engagement & The ability for NIKE employees to be heard, present, focused, and energized, while
well-being feeling connected to NIKE’s Purpose; workplace wellness and engagement initiatives;
ensuring a positive workplace culture.
Employee health & safety NIKE employee health and safety practices in its’ operations.
Our Reporting Approach Priority Issues and Definitions
Issue Name Issue Definition Issue Name Issue Definition
Environmentally friendly Impacts on the environment and local communities of Nike’s buildings and Material waste Waste generated throughout NIKE’s value chain; activities to reduce, reuse or recycle
workplaces & practices workplace practices. and responsibly manage/dispose of waste.
Ethical business practices Ethical and transparent corporate behavior by combatting dishonest or fraudulent Materials sourcing Choice of non-renewable and renewable materials; consideration of social and
conduct by those in power, typically involving bribery, corruption and intellectual environmental impacts associated with the types of materials used and the source;
property infringement. prioritizing less impactful options and third-party certifications.
Forced labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or Product design & circularity Designing products, packaging, and processes for durability, reuse, recycling and circularity.
compulsory labor.
Promotion of social inclusion Creating equitable playing fields and breaking down societal barriers for all athletes;
GHG emissions Greenhouse gas emissions in material sourcing, manufacturing, transportation and diverse athlete endorsements; increase access to sport.
other business activities.
Renewables & energy use Energy used for electricity; use of fossil fuels and renewable energy sources.
Health and safety in Worker health and safety practices throughout the supply chain.
Responsible use of Promoting responsible and safe use of technology to create new and modified products,
the supply chain
innovation & technology packaging and ways of conducting business; considering the impacts of automation.
Healthy lifestyles Promoting healthy habits, play and sport in kids and adults; risks to consumer base
Supply chain management Transparent processes and systems to help ensure suppliers uphold standards on
associated with the spread of obesity and inactive lifestyles.
& transparency environmental, social, and ethical business practice issues.
Inclusive products & services Design products, services and marketing that are widely inclusive of and reflect the wide
Transparency and Reporting Implementing policies and practices to manage and measure environmental and social
diversity of the consumer base.
impacts; Oversight and accountability for managing ESG risk; Publicly reporting on
Indirect supplier diversity Focus on sourcing goods and services that enable NIKE to maintain and develop its sustainability/ESG-related issues, risks, opportunities, and outcomes as well as how
corporate/non-manufacturing operations with diverse (i.e. ethnic/racial minority, women, they are managed and addressed by the business.
disabled, LGBTQ, and veteran) suppliers – ones that are majority owned, operated,
Water use & replenishment Water consumed throughout NIKE’s value chain; monitoring and/or mitigating our
managed, and controlled by a person or persons from diverse backgrounds.
impacts in water scarce regions.
Labor rights in the supply chain Protection and monitoring of the labor rights of workers in NIKE’s supply chain
Workforce development in Building the capacity throughout NIKE’s supply chain for workers to receive training and
(operations and manufacturing), including the right to freedom of association and
the supply chain development to build capability and career opportunities.
collective bargaining, child labor, and other labor rights.
Our Reporting Approach Governance
GOVERNANCE To carry out its responsibilities, the CRS&G
Committee receives regular updates
from management regarding our Purpose
Board
NIKE’s commitment to Purpose begins work, including:
at the highest level with our Board of
Directors (Board). The Board oversees − At each regularly scheduled CRS&G
our Purpose work primarily through the Committee meeting, progress reports
Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability regarding the 2025 targets
& Governance Committee (CRS&G − Regular presentations on each of the three Corporate Responsibility, Audit and Finance Compensation
Committee). As specified in its charter, the Purpose pillars – People, Planet and Play – Sustainability & Governance Committee Committee
CRS&G Committee reviews and provides from the respective management leader (CRS&G) Committee
guidance with respect to NIKE’s corporate − Annual presentations on Purpose strategy
Purpose, including corporate responsibility, and reporting
sustainability, human rights, global
community and social impact, and diversity, At each Board meeting, the CRS&G
equity and inclusion. Committee reports to the Board on
Executive Leadership Team
Purpose highlights and key developments.
The CRS&G Committee oversees both the The Compensation Committee also
risks and the opportunities associated with plays a significant role in the People pillar
Purpose. Specifically, this includes reviewing by overseeing talent management and
significant Purpose strategies, activities, development for executive officers and
policies, investments and programs; senior management, including with respect
Purpose Leadership Team
monitoring the development of, and progress to employee engagement and workplace
toward, our Purpose targets; and providing diversity and inclusion.
guidance regarding Purpose reporting.
Purpose Management
Purpose leadership begins with our
Chief Executive Officer and Executive Purpose Subcommittee
Leadership Team, who set the tone
and ensure it is integrated into NIKE’s
business strategy. Cross-functional teams
support this integrated approach while
dedicated functional leadership drives
Diversity, Equity and Supply Chain Labor, Social and Community Environment
the day-to-day work.
Inclusion (DEI) Health and Safety Investment
Our Reporting Approach Risk Management
RISK MANAGEMENT
NIKE Global Risk Management (GRM) is
an independent and objective internal audit
and risk organization that is guided by a
philosophy of enhancing and protecting
NIKE, Inc.’s value and brand through
world-class risk management capabilities.
It assists NIKE, Inc. in accomplishing its
objectives by partnering with management
to build and maintain effective risk
management, control and governance
processes. GRM reports to the Chief
Financial Officer and is over seen by
the Audit & Finance Committee.
GRM identifies and evaluates risks to NIKE,
Inc., including those related to Purpose,
as part of its risk assessment process.
This process then informs GRM’s audit
and risk plan and how GRM deploys risk
management services across NIKE, Inc.
Regular risk updates and insights are
provided to management and the Audit
& Finance Committee.
NYC Garage
NIKE WHQ
06 164 Data Tables
195 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
Index
215 Assurance Report
216 NIKE, Inc.
Management Assertion
Appendix Data Tables
PEOPLE60 NIKE, Inc. Totals By Gender (global/corporate)
Change
FY21 FY22 FY21–FY22 FY25 Target
Gender # % # % # p.p. %
Target
All employees
50% representation of women
Female 11,606 50.4% 12,833 51.1% 1,227 0.6 p.p 50%
in global corporate workforce
Male 11,409 49.6% 12,305 48.9% 896 -0.6 p.p
and 45% in leadership positions
Total 23,015 100% 25,138 100% 2,123 0 p.p.
Leadership positions
Female 166 43.0% 189 44.1% 23 1.1 p.p 45%
Male 220 57.0% 240 55.9% 20 -1.1 p.p
Total 386 100% 429 100% 43 0 p.p.
NIKE, Inc. Women Totals (global/all lines of business)
Change
FY21 FY22 FY21–FY22
All Bands # % # % # p.p.
NIKE, Inc. 32,584 49.9% 35,574 49.8% 2,990 -0.1 p.p.
VPLT 166 42.8% 190 43.9% 24 1.1 p.p.
Sr. Director 551 42.9% 628 44.1% 77 1.3 p.p.
Director 2,066 43.5% 2,267 43.9% 201 0.5 p.p.
Managers 5,244 45.9% 6,064 47.1% 820 1.2 p.p.
Entry Level 24,557 51.8% 26,425 51.3% 1,868 -0.5 p.p.
60 E mployee representation metrics in this report regarding race/ethnicity characteristics are based on voluntary employee
self-identification or, in conformance with EEO-1 data collection guidance, these employees have been identified using
commonly accepted HR practices as “Not Hispanic/Latino,” “Two or More Races,” “or Unknown.”
Appendix Data Tables
NIKE, Inc. Totals by REM Group (U.S. Only, corporate, E+)
Target
30% representation of U.S. racial Change
FY21 FY22 FY21–FY22 FY25 Target
and ethnic minorities (REM) at Director+ # % # % # p.p. %
Director level and above; increase Non-REM 3,108 69.5% 3,213 65.5% 105 -4.0 p.p.
REM 1,365 30.5% 1,691 34.5% 326 4.0 p.p. 30%
pipeline of Black and Latinx talent
Total 4,473 100% 4,904 100% 431 0 p.p.
at Director and above
American Indian or Alaskan 9 0.2% 14 0.3% 5 0.1 p.p.
Native (Not Hispanic/Latino)
Asian (Not Hispanic/Latino) 610 13.6% 760 15.5% 150 1.9 p.p.
Black or African American 256 5.7% 333 6.8% 77 1.1 p.p.
(Not Hispanic/Latino)
Hispanic/Latino 285 6.4% 340 6.9% 55 0.6 p.p.
Native Hawaiian or 9 0.2% 8 0.2% -1 0.0 p.p.
Other Pacific Islander
(Not Hispanic/Latino)
Two or More Races 196 4.4% 236 4.8% 40 0.4 p.p.
(Not Hispanic/Latino)
Unknown 35 0.8% 49 1.0% 14 0.2 p.p.
White (Not Hispanic/Latino) 3,073 68.7% 3,164 64.5% 91 -4.2 p.p.
Total 4,473 100% 4,904 100% 431 0 p.p.
Appendix Data Tables
NIKE, Inc. Totals by REM (U.S./Corporate)
Change
FY21 FY22 FY21–FY22
VP+ # % # % # p.p.
Non-REM 221 69.7% 231 65.4% 10 -4.3 p.p.
REM 96 30.3% 122 34.6% 26 4.3 p.p.
Total 317 100% 353 100% 36 0 p.p.
American Indian or Alaskan 0 0.0% 0 0.0% 0 0.0 p.p.
Native (Not Hispanic/Latino)
Asian (Not Hispanic/Latino) 27 8.5% 39 11.0% 12 2.5 p.p.
Black or African American 45 14.2% 50 14.2% 5 0.0 p.p.
(Not Hispanic/Latino)
Hispanic/Latino 15 4.7% 17 4.8% 2 0.1 p.p.
Native Hawaiian or 0 0.0% 0 0.0% 0 0.0 p.p.
Other Pacific Islander
(Not Hispanic/Latino)
Two or More Races 9 2.8% 16 4.5% 7 1.7 p.p.
(Not Hispanic/Latino)
Unknown 2 0.6% 6 1.7% 4 1.1 p.p.
White (Not Hispanic/Latino) 219 69.1% 225 63.7% 6 -5.3 p.p.
Total 317 100% 353 100% 36 0 p.p.
Appendix Data Tables
NIKE, Inc. Totals by REM Group (U.S. Only, All lines of Business, All Bands)
Change
FY21 FY22 FY21–FY22
All Bands # % # % # p.p.
Non-REM 13,098 40.3% 13,738 37.0% 640 -3.3 p.p.
REM 19,441 59.7% 23,416 63.0% 3,975 3.3 p.p.
Total 32,539 100% 37,154 100% 4,615 0 p.p.
American Indian or Alaskan 123 0.4% 152 0.4% 29 0.0 p.p.
Native (Not Hispanic/Latino)
Asian (Not Hispanic/Latino) 3,230 9.9% 3,939 10.6% 709 0.7 p.p.
Black or African American 7,905 24.3% 9,487 25.5% 1,582 1.2 p.p.
(Not Hispanic/Latino)
Hispanic/Latino 6,092 18.7% 7,427 20.0% 1,335 1.3 p.p.
Native Hawaiian or 211 0.6% 259 0.7% 48 0.0 p.p.
Other Pacific Islander
(Not Hispanic/Latino)
Two or More Races 1,880 5.8% 2,152 5.8% 272 0.0 p.p.
(Not Hispanic/Latino)
Unknown 126 0.4% 437 1.2% 311 0.8 p.p.
White (Not Hispanic/Latino) 12,972 39.9% 13,301 35.8% 329 -4.1 p.p.
Total 32,539 100% 37,154 100% 4,615 0 p.p.
Appendix Data Tables
NIKE, Inc. Totals by REM Group (U.S. Only, All Lines of Business, All Bands) by Band
Change
FY21 FY22 FY21–FY22
All Bands # % # % # p.p.
NIKE, Inc. 19,441 59.7% 23,416 63.0% 3,975 3.3 p.p.
VPLT 96 30.2% 122 34.3% 26 4.1 p.p.
Sr. Director 310 32.2% 368 34.1% 58 1.9 p.p.
Director 1,004 30.3% 1,249 34.7% 245 4.4 p.p.
Managers 2,509 36.7% 3,087 40.3% 578 3.6 p.p.
Entry Level 15,522 73.5% 18,590 76.0% 3,068 2.5 p.p.
Appendix Data Tables
NIKE, Inc. Totals by REM Group (U.S. Only, Corporate, All Bands)
Target
35% representation of racial Change
FY21 FY22 FY21–FY22 FY25 Target
and ethnic minorities in our All Bands # % # % # p.p. %
U.S. corporate workforce Non-REM 8,983 65.5% 9,237 61.2% 254 -4.3 p.p.
REM 4,728 34.5% 5,861 38.8% 1,133 4.3 p.p. 35%
Total 13,711 100% 15,098 100% 1,387 0 p.p.
American Indian or Alaskan 48 0.4% 50 0.3% 2 0.0 p.p.
Native (Not Hispanic/Latino)
Asian (Not Hispanic/Latino) 2,073 15.1% 2,561 17.0% 488 1.8 p.p.
Black or African American 763 5.6% 1,062 7.0% 299 1.5 p.p.
(Not Hispanic/Latino)
Hispanic/Latino 976 7.1% 1,221 8.1% 245 1.0 p.p.
Native Hawaiian or 48 0.4% 53 0.4% 5 0.0 p.p.
Other Pacific Islander
(Not Hispanic/Latino)
Two or More Races 820 6.0% 914 6.1% 94 0.1 p.p.
(Not Hispanic/Latino)
Unknown 77 0.6% 166 1.1% 89 0.5 p.p.
White (Not Hispanic/Latino) 8,906 65.0% 9,071 60.1% 165 -4.9 p.p.
Total 13,711 100% 15,098 100% 1,387 0 p.p.
Appendix Data Tables
Board of Directors
FY20 FY21 FY22
# % # % # %
Gender
Female 4 30.8 4 33.3 4 36.4
Male 9 69.2 8 66.7 7 63.6
Total 13 100 12 100 11 100
Race/Ethnicity
American Indian or 0 0 0 0 0 0
Alaskan Native
Black or African American 4 30.8 3 25 3 27.3
Asian 0 0 0 0 0 0
Hispanic/Latino 0 0 0 0 0 0
Native Hawaiian or 0 0 0 0 0 0
Other Pacific Islander
Two or More Races 0 0 0 0 0 0
Unkown 0 0 0 0 0 0
White 9 69.2 9 75 8 72.7
Total 13 100 12 100 11 100
Appendix Data Tables
Target
OH&S Data61 For NIKE Employees62 and Tier 1 Focus Factories63
100% of strategic suppliers are building NIKE Employees
CY20 CY2164 CY22
world-class, safe and healthy workplaces
Distribution (Industry Code: 493110)
for the people making our products
Total Case Incident Rate (TCIR) NIKE 1.17 0.96 1.05
Industry65 4.90 5.00 5.60
Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) NIKE 0.78 0.33 0.32
Industry 3.70 2.10 2.30
Air MI (Industry Code: 326113)66
TCIR NIKE 4.8167 4.70 3.17
Industry 4.70 2.70 3.30
LTIR NIKE 1.9367 1.71 1.58
Industry 3.20 1.10 1.20
Offices (Industry Code: 551114)
TCIR NIKE 0.35 0.01 0.04
Industry 0.70 0.70 0.60
LTIR NIKE 0.15 0.00 0.00
Industry 0.30 0.30 0.20
61 OH&S data is reported using calendar year (CY) instead of fiscal year (FY) to align data with regulatory reporting requirements, including Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), both of which are used as an industry standard. The industry average comes from the United States Department of Labor; BLS. Each industry
classification, such as DCs and Air MI, offices, footwear manufacturing, apparel manufacturing, reports a separate average for recordable injuries and lost time rates each of which are captured and recorded separately.
62 The reported injury rates reflect a combination of NIKE full-time and certain external temporary workers. Data is collected based on U.S. legal reporting requirements, reporting on all NIKE’s operations except retail, which is excluded from OSHA record keeping requirements. Retail injury rates will be included in future reports.
63 Focus factories are key strategic contract factories within our supply chain that represent the majority of finished goods production of NIKE footwear, apparel and Converse footwear.
64 Using CY21 BLS rates as BLS rates for CY22 were not published at the time of the FY22 NIKE, Inc. Impact Report publication.
65 The industry average comes from the United States Department of Labor; Bureau of Labor Statistics. Each industry classification (such as DC, Air Manufacturing Innovation (Air MI), Offices, Footwear Manufacturing, Apparel Manufacturing) reports a separate average for recordable injuries and lost time rates (which are captured).
66 The Air MI industry code has been updated as of CY22 reporting. After implementation of a manufacturing expansion and site diversification plan, the broader “All other plastics product manufacturing” category is now a more accurate description for Air MI’s business. Both “Unlaminated Plastics Film & Sheet Manufacturing” and “Unlaminated Plastics Profile Shape Manufacturing”
occur at Air MI facilities.
67 FY20 Air MI injury rate was uniquely influenced by COVID-19 with interruptions in work, adjustments to manufacturing process and the addition of hundreds of temporary workers to augment the workforce
Appendix Data Tables
Tier 1 Focus Factories68
CY20 CY2164 CY22 CY20 CY2164 CY22
Footwear (Industry Code: 3162) Equipment
TCIR Supplier 0.28 0.15 0.11 TCIR Supplier 0.37 − −
Industry 3.20 3.40 6.50 Industry N/A N/A N/A
LTIR Supplier 0.15 0.08 0.06 LTIR Supplier 0.37 − −
Industry 1.00 1.30 3.10 Industry N/A N/A N/A
Apparel (Industry Code: 3152)
TCIR Supplier 0.50 0.52 0.25
Industry 1.90 1.60 1.80
LTIR Supplier 0.27 0.21 0.13
Industry 0.70 0.60 1.00
68 Tier 1 focus factory data is self-reported by factories and may be incomplete. At the time of the FY22 NIKE, Inc. Impact Report publication, December 2021 data was estimated for factories where
actual data was unavailable. The BLS does not calculate manufacturing rates for equipment/accessories. From CY21 onwards through the FY25 target cycle, there are no accessories focus factories.
64 Using CY21 BLS rates as BLS rates for CY22 were not published at the time of the FY22 NIKE, Inc. Impact Report publication.
Appendix Data Tables
Audit, Non-Compliance
Target
100% of facilities in our extended supply chain % of Tier 1 Total % of Tier 2 Total % of DCs Total
Age Standards 0 0.2 0.5
meet NIKE’s foundational labor, health, safety
Air Emissions 0 0.1 0
and environmental standards demonstrating
Building Is Safe 4.2 5.6 10
respect for the rights of their workers and
Chemical Management 30.4 20.1 7.2
communities where they operate
Code is Fully Implemented 6.7 5.6 8.6
Discrimination 0.4 1.3 5.7
Dorms, Canteen and Childcare 2.1 2.1 1.4
Fire and Emergency Action 16.7 10.0 12
Forced or Compulsory Labor69 1.3 0.7 0.5
Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 1.7 1.4 6.7
Harassment and Abuse 0.8 0.0 0.0
Hazardous Waste 1.3 1.9 0.0
Occupational Health and Hygiene 9.2 13.3 11.5
Regular Employment 1.3 0.8 1.0
Solid Waste (Non-Hazardous Waste) 0 0.4 2.4
Wages and Benefits 3.3 5.4 2.9
Wastewater 3.8 2.7 0.0
Working Hours 4.6 10.6 17.2
Workplace Is Safe 12.5 17.7 12.4
Total 100 100 100
69 “All work or service which is exacted from any person under the menace of any penalty and for which the said person has not offered himself voluntarily.” – International Labour Organization
Appendix Data Tables
Worker Count Results Audit Counts
Tier 1 Tier 2 DC’s FY22 Total Tier 1 Tier 2 DC’s FY22 Total
# # # # % # # # # %
Americas 59,722 3,998 13,747 77,467 6 NIKE 61 1 0 62 4
EMEA 32,428 846 3,066 36,340 3 SLCP40 286 158 26 470 33
N Asia 113,272 61,449 3,985 178,706 14 SAC’s FEM40 379 185 0 564 40
S Asia 380,730 31,079 394 412,203 32 ZDHC40 Wastewater Guidelines 82 166 0 248 17
SE Asia 541,811 57,260 49 599,120 46 DECA 0 0 20 20 1
Total 1,127,963 154,632 21,241 1,303,836 FLA 4 0 0 4 0.3
Better Work 50 3 0 53 4
Total 862 513 46 1,421
40 Number of reports received.
Appendix Data Tables
PLANET
FY22 Emissions Summary (Metric Tons CO 2e) Scope 1, 2, And 371
Emissions Emissions (%)
Scope 1 50,86822 0.5%
Target70 Scope 2 (market-based emissions) 24,90022 0.3%
70% absolute reduction of GHG emissions Scope 3 9,953,491 99.2%
Total 10,029,259
in owned or operated facilities through 100%
renewable electricity and fleet electrification
Greenhouse gas emissions from key suppliers’
manufacturing and transportation operations
will be at or below 2020 levels through use
of renewable energy, energy efficiency and
alternative fuels
0.5M metric tons of GHG emissions reduced
through increasing our use of environmentally
preferred materials to 50% of all key materials
70 These targets comprehensively cover our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, and cover part of our Scope 3 emissions.
71 NIKE converts all energy consumption to kWhe using net calorific value of the direct fuels consumption, including transportation fuels. Emissions data for HFCs, PFCs and SF6 are not
reported. NIKE has phased out SF6 and therefore doesn’t have SF6 emissions. Emissions for other greenhouse gases are either not relevant, immaterial, or data is not available.
22 This metric is part of Management’s Assertion on select sustainability metrics, which PwC has performed limited assurance over for the period from June 1, 2021, to May 31, 2022, as
indicated in the Report of Independent Accountants.
Appendix Data Tables
Energy and Emissions by Business Function (Scope 1 and Scope 2 (Market-based))
Emissions (Metric Tons CO2e) Energy (MWh)
Fuel Fuel Fuel Electricity Electricity Electricity
Scope 1 Scope 1 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 2 Scope 2 consumption consumption consumption consumption consumption consumption
FY20 FY21 FY22 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY20 FY21 FY22
Retail 18,210 17,761 18,611 68,748 41,391 10,178 89,898 87,682 91,880 204,033 186,654 196,685
HQs & Offices 18,488 13,934 14,530 33,769 18,352 4,062 73,028 49,966 53,522 152,909 121,015 115,051
HQ Fleet Vehicles 1,407 227 253 − − − 5,582 904 1,004 − − −
Distribution Centers 9,676 11,224 12,149 38,829 14,523 7,708 47,244 54,852 59,802 191,711 197,657 194,685
Corporate Jets 2,912 1,432 3,515 − − − 11,257 5,534 13,356 − − −
Air Manufacturing Innovation 1,620 1,884 1,809 19,494 2,155 2,952 6,311 7,604 7,219 94,290 86,885 82,116
NIKE, Inc. 52,312 46,462 50,86822 160,840 76,420 24,90022 233,320 206,541 226,783 642,943 592,211 588,537
22 This metric is part of Management’s Assertion on select sustainability metrics, which PwC has performed limited assurance over for the period from June 1, 2021, to May 31, 2022, as indicated in the Report of Independent Accountants.
Appendix Data Tables
Fuel Consumption (MWh) and Scope 1 Emissions (Metric Tons CO e)
2
FY20 FY21 FY22 FY20 FY21 FY22
Air MI HQs & Offices
Fuel Consumption (MWh) 6,311 7,604 7,219 Fuel Consumption (MWh) 73,028 49,966 53,522
Emissions (Metric Tons CO e) 1,620 1,884 1,809 Emissions (Metric Tons CO e) 18,488 13,934 14,530
2 2
HQ Fleet Vehicles Retail
Fuel Consumption (MWh) 5,582 904 1,004 Fuel Consumption (MWh) 89,898 87,682 91,880
Emissions (Metric Tons CO e) 1,407 227 253 Emissions (Metric Tons CO e) 18,210 17,761 18,611
2 2
Corporate Jets NIKE, Inc.
Fuel Consumption (MWh) 11,257 5,534 13,356 Fuel Consumption (MWh) 233,320 206,541 226,783
Emissions (Metric Tons CO e) 2,912 1,432 3,515 Emissions (Metric Tons CO e) 52,312 46,462 50,86822
2 2
Distribution Centers
Fuel Consumption (MWh) 47,244 54,852 59,802
Emissions (Metric Tons CO e) 9,676 11,224 12,149
2
22 This metric is part of Management’s Assertion on select sustainability metrics, which PwC has performed limited assurance over for the period from June 1, 2021, to May 31, 2022, as indicated in the Report of Independent Accountants.
Appendix Data Tables
Electricity Consumption (MWh) and Scope 2 Emissions (Metric Tons CO e)
2
FY20 FY21 FY22 FY20 FY21 FY22
Air MI Retail
Grid Electricity (MWh) 94,290 86,885 82,116 Total Electricity (MWh) 204,033 186,654 196,685
Location-Based (Metric Tons CO e) 46,059 42,151 38,531 Grid Electricity 204,033 186,654 196,685
2
Market-Based (Metric Tons CO e) 19,494 2,155 2,952 Location-Based (Metric Tons CO e) 89,493 80,922 81,073
2 2
Market-Based (Metric Tons CO e) 68,748 41,391 10,178
2
Distribution Centers
Total Electricity (MWh) 191,711 197,657 194,685 NIKE, Inc.
Grid Electricity (MWh) 173,775 174,388 174,851 Total Electricity (MWh) 642,943 592,211 588,537
Onsite Solar (MWh) 6,805 8,150 10,294 Grid Electricity 624,379 568,535 567,418
Onsite Wind (MWh) 11,131 15,120 9,540 Onsite Solar 7,433 8,557 11,579
Location-Based (Metric Tons CO e) 79,178 81,550 62,811 Onsite Wind 11,131 15,120 9,540
2
Market-Based (Metric Tons CO e) 38,829 14,523 7,708 Location-Based (Metric Tons CO e) 271,176 251,579 224,03522
2 2
Market-Based (Metric Tons CO e) 160,840 76,420 24,90022
2
HQs and Offices
Total Electricity (MWh) 152,909 121,015 115,051
Grid Electricity 152,281 120,608 113,766
Onsite Solar 628 407 1,285
Location-Based (Metric Tons CO e) 56,446 46,956 41,620
2
Market-Based (Metric Tons CO e) 33,769 18,352 4,062
2
22 This metric is part of Management’s Assertion on select sustainability metrics, which PwC has performed limited assurance over for the period from June 1, 2021, to May 31, 2022, as indicated in the Report of Independent Accountants.
Appendix Data Tables
Scope 3 Emissions: Manufacturing & Logistics (Metric Tons CO e)
2
FY20 FY21 FY22
Tier 1 – Footwear Manufacturing 1,388,826 1,411,754 1,469,481
Tier 1 – Apparel Manufacturing 89,865 72,601 87,753
Tier 2 – Footwear Textile Dyeing and Finishing 207,713 193,463 194,364
Tier 2 – Apparel Textile Dyeing and Finishing 785,487 727,076 767,499
Logistics – Inbound Transportation 1,013,581 275,199 413,99822
Logistics – Outbound Transportation 164,690 184,719 152,86922
22 This metric is part of Management’s Assertion on select sustainability metrics, which PwC has performed limited assurance over for the period from June 1, 2021, to May 31, 2022, as indicated in the Report of Independent Accountants.
Appendix Data Tables
Science-Based Targets (SBT) Footprint FY15–21 (Metric Tons CO e)
2
FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22
Scope 1
Air Manufacturing Innovation 126 114 145 496 1,229 1,620 1,884 1,809
HQ Fleet Vehicles 406 535 666 627 555 1,407 227 253
Corporate Jets 3,576 4,392 3,391 3,773 3,162 2,912 1,432 3,515
Distribution Centers 8,084 6,698 7,861 10,048 10,408 9,676 11,224 12,149
HQs & Offices 10,009 11,623 13,168 10,975 13,612 18,488 13,934 14,530
Retail 13,423 13,963 14,907 16,022 17,747 18,210 17,761 18,611
Total 35,624 37,325 40,138 41,941 46,713 52,312 46,462 50,86822
Scope 2 (market-based emissions)
Air Manufacturing Innovation 18,099 14,873 18,156 29,237 33,849 19,494 2,155 2,952
Distribution Centers 58,241 67,832 61,142 55,304 60,603 38,829 14,523 7,708
HQs & Offices 54,276 43,189 41,820 33,802 10,938 33,769 18,352 4,062
Retail 98,154 99,959 103,393 91,978 92,107 68,748 41,391 10,178
Total 228,770 225,853 224,511 210,321 209,065 160,840 76,420 24,90022
22 This metric is part of Management’s Assertion on select sustainability metrics, which PwC has performed limited assurance over for the period from June 1, 2021, to May 31, 2022, as indicated in the Report of Independent Accountants.
Appendix Data Tables
Science-Based Targets (SBT) Footprint FY15–21 (Metric Tons CO e)
2
FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22
Scope 3
Waste Generated in Operations 1,738 1,973 2,031 2,245 1,951 2,322 1,810 1,999
Downstream Transportation and Distribution 63,787 71,510 67,753 70,403 64,979 91,862 78,184 85,146
Energy-Related Activities Excluded in S1/S2 11,163 12,151 13,140 14,128 15,117 15,289 13,025 15,062
End-of-Life 375,270 393,776 404,768 417,717 439,028 452,856 418,080 618,851
Logistics 1,064,313 880,326 1,146,359 1,104,695 1,192,920 1,304,489 544,099 644,305
Packaging 539,198 560,225 582,072 604,771 628,355 652,859 954,955 683,365
Business Travel (Corporate Air Travel) 112,355 110,523 81,913 75,645 89,464 81,340 3,395 13,29722
Employee Commuting 98,546 106,755 114,964 123,173 131,382 107,314 85,746 98,473
T2–T4 ACC 722,333 723,829 620,552 653,580 669,971 642,926 568,895 685,694
T1 Waste 44 43 42 41 40 42 20 26
T1 FW 1,007,402 1,018,623 1,086,039 1,182,089 1,176,709 1,415,163 1,444,915 1,504,501
T1 ACC 114,074 114,310 98,000 103,216 105,805 97,785 89,842 113,286
T1 AP 175,719 181,408 193,409 204,659 215,796 200,266 170,779 177,402
T2 AP 589,308 712,818 809,594 839,357 873,069 1,008,183 963,898 1,030,009
T2 FW 216,662 220,386 208,238 190,208 201,344 282,439 328,634 338,264
T3 AP 1,097,424 1,132,893 1,207,583 1,277,571 1,346,980 1,267,251 1,179,185 558,004
T3 FW 357,005 378,591 389,155 396,536 416,934 458,388 430,053 523,463
T4 AP 764,803 789,522 841,574 890,349 938,721 893,826 778,623 682,022
T4 FW 1,908,139 2,023,515 2,079,979 2,119,428 2,228,453 2,629,520 2,773,094 2,163,316
RTFKT – Primary Transactions 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 16,590
RTFKT – Secondary Transactions 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 417
Total 9,219,282 9,433,177 9,947,164 10,269,811 10,737,016 11,604,118 10,827,234 9,953,491
22 This metric is part of Management’s Assertion on select sustainability metrics, which PwC has performed limited assurance over for the period from June 1, 2021, to May 31, 2022, as indicated in the Report of Independent Accountants.
Appendix Data Tables
NIKE’s Carbon Targets Landscape
Not in Scope Partial Scope included Full Scope included
RE100: 100% 0.5M Metric Tons Materials
Renewable Electricity 0% Change in Manufacturing GHG Emissions Reduced
in Owned or Operated -70% Owned or Operated & Transportation via Use of Environmentally
Facilities Facility GHG Emissions GHG Emissions72 Preferred Materials (EPMs) Scope 1 and 2 SBT Scope 3 SBT Net Zero Full Corporate Carbon Footprint
Energy or Emissions Energy Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions
Emissions Scope 2 1 & 2 3 3 1 & 2 3 1, 2 & 3 1, 2 & 3
Target Period FY15–25 FY20–25 FY20–25 FY20–25 FY15–30 FY15–30 FY15–50 N/A
Target 100% -70% 0% -0.5M metric tons -65% -30% -90% N/A
50% EPMs
Scope: NIKE Value Chain Terminology
Corporate Services
HQs & Other Offices
HQ Fleet
Air MI
Corporate Jets
Commercial Air Business Travel
Raw Materials Production
Materials Manufacturing
Materials Finishing (Textile Dyeing and Finishing)
Finished Goods Manufacturing
Logistics
Inbound Logistics
Outbound Logistics
Distribution Centers
Retail (NIKE Direct)
Consumer Use
End of Life
72 Scope includes suppliers representing approximately 80% of total footwear and apparel production; suppliers representing approximately 80% of total footwear upper materials and apparel textiles production; and about 95% of both inbound and outbound transportation.
Appendix Data Tables
Scope 3 Emissions by Category and Operational Boundaries
Not in SBT Scope In SBT Scope
% of Emissions Calculated Using Data
FY22 Metric Tons Obtained From Suppliers or Value Chain
Emissions Sources CO2e and/or Evaluation Status Scope of Reported Emissions Emissions Calculation Methodology Partners
Upstream
1 Purchased Goods and Services 8,476,358 Includes emissions across NIKE brands and Emissions data is calculated using primary activity data and 31%
product engines, including from raw materials extrapolations. CO e emissions include CO , CH , and N O. NIKE Brand
2 2 4 2
production, materials manufacturing, materials and Converse footwear finished goods manufacturing emissions data is
finishing, finished goods manufacturing, packaging derived from 97% primary data; apparel from 63% primary data. For this
materials, and transactions via RTFKT (since subset, vendors provide monthly energy consumption: from the local utility
acquisition in FY22). grid, onsite generators, other fuels, and purchased steam. For electricity:
kWh values are multiplied by CO e emissions factors for electricity
2
Starting with FY22 data, end of life emissions purchased from the local utility grid by the country/region in which the
from packaging have been migrated from factory resides. For onsite generation and other fuels: CO e emissions
2
Category 1 to Category 12 (End-of-Life Treatment are calculated using the IPCC bottoms up calculation methodology.
of Sold Products) as more granular data has CO e methodologies are used for emissions estimates outside of
2
become available. footwear finished goods manufacturing based on lifecycle analysis data
applied to product creation data, and employ conservative assumptions
to avoid understating NIKE’s footprint. To evaluate NIKE’s value chain
footprint, we identified and quantified CO e emissions created at each
2
stage of the value chain. The impact of each individual product differs
considerably, based on its profile, materials used, size and weight, method
of manufacture, and location of production, use, and disposal. Several
internal and external tools were used to develop this estimation including
NIKE’s Materials Sustainability Index, Enablon, and COMPASS (life cycle
packaging tool).
As of FY22, we’ve aligned with the latest version of updated Sustainable
Apparel Coalition’s Higg MSI (Higg MSI) lifecycle emission factors. See
GRI 305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions section for details.
2 Capital Goods Not relevant NIKE does not have significant investment in N/A N/A
capital goods as most manufacturing equipment
is owned and operated by contracted factories.
Appendix Data Tables
% of Emissions Calculated Using Data
FY22 Metric Tons Obtained From Suppliers or Value Chain
Emissions Sources CO2e and/or Evaluation Status Scope of Reported Emissions Emissions Calculation Methodology Partners
3 Fuel and Energy-Related Activities 15,062 Includes emissions associated with the extraction, Emissions data is calculated using primary activity data, extrapolated 58%
Not Included in Scope 1 or 2 production, and transportation of fuels and consumption, and publicly available CO e emissions factors.
2
energy purchased and reported in NIKE’s Scope Consumption is multiplied by the emissions factor, using an identical
1 footprint. Does not include upstream electricity global factor across all countries and regions.
emissions, T&D losses, or other onsite fuels
besides natural gas (propane, diesel, biogas,
hi-sene).
4 Upstream Transportation and Distribution 644,305 Includes ~95% of global inbound transportation Transactional data is applied to a third-party transportation carbon 100%
and ~95% of global outbound transportation via calculator against industry standard emissions factors (distance travelled
the following modes of transportation: air, ocean, x cargo weight or volume x emission factor). Upstream emissions from air
truck and rail. Excludes non-NIKE paid freight. transport of airbag components is calculated using industry standard air
Also included is the shipment via air freight of NIKE freight emission factors per ton-mile and production volume.
AirBags produced in North America and shipped
as components for footwear manufacturing to
manufacturing partners in Asia.
5 Waste Generated in Operations 1,999 Emissions relative to the fate of the waste Total HQs, DCs, and Air MI waste not diverted from landfill multiplied by 100%
generated in our own operations including HQs, a lifecycle assessment-based emission factor for municipal waste sent to
DCs, and Air MI. landfill.
6 Business Travel 13,297 Includes emissions from commercial air travel. Air CO emissions are estimated based on number and distance of trips. 100%
2
Short haul trips are less fuel efficient per mile flown. Longer-haul flights
become less efficient due to the need to carry more fuel.
7 Employee Commuting 98,473 Emissions associated with the transportation Internal employee commuting survey data is used to inform the allocation 18%
of employees between their homes and work of methods/modes that NIKE applies to its global employee base. Each
locations. Represents regular and mode is assigned an emission factor relative to fuel type. Assumptions
temporary employees. are made about the average number of working days per year, average
number of commuting days per year (given introduction of the flex
work week), and the average distance between an employee’s home
and worksite.
8 Upstream Leased Assets Not relevant NIKE does not have significant emissions from N/A N/A
upstream leased assets.
Appendix Data Tables
% of Emissions Calculated Using Data
FY22 Metric Tons Obtained From Suppliers or Value Chain
Emissions Sources CO2e and/or Evaluation Status Scope of Reported Emissions Emissions Calculation Methodology Partners
Downstream
9 Downstream Transportation and Distribution 85,146 Includes emissions from non-NIKE paid freight. Transactional data is applied to a third-party transportation carbon 0%
Excludes emissions from consumers traveling calculator against industry standard emissions factors (distance travelled
to stores. x cargo weight or volume x emission factor). Non-NIKE paid freight is
determined calculating the difference between Inbound and Outbound
freight and using the outbound freight emissions factor to determine
total emissions.
10 Processing of Sold Products Not relevant NIKE’s products are finished consumer goods N/A N/A
and do not undergo any additional processing
once sold.
11 Use of Sold Products 7,968,735 These emissions are associated with washing There is no primary emissions data available from use of NIKE’s 0%
and drying NIKE’s sold apparel and starting with products. Consumer energy usage was estimated based on the following
FY22 data, socks. Footwear and equipment were assumptions: only apparel units and socks are washed and dried. Each
assumed to not be washed. Emissions from use of item was assumed to be washed 52 times in one year. The washing
sold products are excluded from SBT scope. assumptions were based on regional consumer washing practices and
estimates of washing machine types by region. CO e was based on
2
regional conversion factors applied to the estimated energy usage.
Appendix Data Tables
% of Emissions Calculated Using Data
FY22 Metric Tons Obtained From Suppliers or Value Chain
Emissions Sources CO2e and/or Evaluation Status Scope of Reported Emissions Emissions Calculation Methodology Partners
12 End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products 618,851 These emissions are associated with the disposal There is no primary emissions data available for end-of-life treatment of 0%
of products including landfill and incineration. NIKE’s products. To evaluate NIKE’s value chain footprint, we identified
and quantified CO e emissions created at each stage of the value chain.
2
The impact of each individual product differs considerably, based on
its profile, materials used, size and weight, method of manufacture, and
location of production, use and disposal. Several internal and external
tools were used to develop this estimation including NIKE’s Materials
Sustainability Index, EPA’s Waste Reduction Model (WARM), and
COMPASS (life cycle packaging tool). Finished goods were assumed
to be disposed of at the end of one year.
Based on waste treatment data from the COMPASS software database,
end-of-life (EOL) carbon impacts from packaging are calculated using
country and material-specific packaging waste treatment data and
emissions factors. This includes assumptions from COMPASS on waste
treatment pathways for specific geographies and material type pairings
as well as emissions factors for each type of treatment (e.g. recycling,
landfilling, etc.). Prior to FY22, NIKE included the EOL impacts of
Packaging in the “Purchased Goods and Services” category.
13 Downstream Leased Assets Not relevant NIKE does not have significant emissions from N/A N/A
downstream leased assets.
14 Franchises Not relevant NIKE does not have significant emissions from N/A N/A
franchises.
15 Investments Not relevant NIKE does not have significant emissions from N/A N/A
investments.
Total SBT S3 Emissions 9,953,491
Total Full Footprint S3 Emissions 17,922,226
Appendix Data Tables
Waste (Metric Tons)
FY20 FY21 FY22 FY20 FY21 FY22
Distribution Centers (DCs) AP Manufacturing73
Recycled 36,713 33,856 33,795 Recycled 20,076 14,557 21,309
Composted 117 86 138 Waste to Energy 2,371 2,540 2,827
Waste to Energy 1,637 2,214 3,001 Landfilled and Incinerated 924 387 409
Landfilled 3,664 3,663 3,148 Total 23,371 17,484 24,545
Total 42,131 39,820 40,082
Air MI
HQs Recycled 44,339 32,780 28,458
Recycled 1,661 1,157 1,946 Waste to Energy 182 169 11
Composted 1,043 697 1,003 Landfilled and Incinerated 1,284 957 817
Waste to Energy 0 2 111 Total 45,805 33,906 29,286
Landfilled 2,142 790 882
Total 4,846 2,646 3,942
Total Weight of Hazardous Waste (Metric Tons) Generated in Footwear Manufacturing74
FY22
FW Manufacturing73
Total Weight 12,398
Recycled 49,629 51,584 59,067
Energy Recovery 60,675 50,968 50,078
Landfilled and Incinerated 429 − −
Total 110,733 102,553 109,144
73 Strategic Finished Goods Suppliers: Suppliers representing approximately 80% of total footwear and apparel production.
74 Annual compliance assessments verify that suppliers are meeting the requirements in the NIKE Code of Conduct and Code Leadership Standards (CLS). Verifiers confirm that partners
have obtained all required permits with safety, health and environmental control programs including proper management of hazardous waste and hazardous waste vendors selected by the
supplier being properly qualified and licensed.
Appendix Data Tables
FY22 Fuel & Electricity Consumption (MWh) & Scope 1 & 2 Emissions (Metric Tons CO e) by Country
2
Fuel Consumption Scope 1 Grid Electricity Onsite Solar Onsite Wind Location-Based Scope 2 Market-Based Scope 2
Country/Region (MWh) (Metric Tons CO2e) (MWh) (MWh) (MWh) (Metric Tons CO2e) (Metric Tons CO2e)
Argentina 1,190 255 3,257 0 0 938 0
Australia 989 218 2,369 0 0 1,629 1,629
Austria 579 117 745 0 0 102 0
Belgium 11,147 1,744 35,516 5,916 9,540 5,899 165
Brazil 86 24 137 0 0 14 0
Canada 10,865 2,217 6,542 0 0 849 0
Chile 680 146 2,460 0 0 1,091 0
China 37,995 8,391 68,236 3,026 0 42,695 498
Croatia 36 7 86 0 0 15 0
Czech Republic 216 44 236 0 0 104 0
Denmark 319 68 305 0 0 30 0
France 3,595 736 8,513 0 0 458 0
Germany 6,924 1,482 5,428 0 0 1,880 0
Greece 0 5 938 0 0 467 0
Hong Kong 578 149 1,369 0 0 1,126 1,126
Hungary 297 60 407 0 0 93 0
India 511 144 859 0 0 624 0
Indonesia 126 35 465 0 0 356 0
Ireland 303 64 790 0 0 233 0
Israel 0 7 1,172 0 0 562 0
Appendix Data Tables
FY22 Fuel & Electricity Consumption (MWh) & Scope 1 & 2 Emissions (Metric Tons CO e) by Country
2
Fuel Consumption Scope 1 Grid Electricity Onsite Solar Onsite Wind Location-Based Scope 2 Market-Based Scope 2
Country/Region (MWh) (Metric Tons CO2e) (MWh) (MWh) (MWh) (Metric Tons CO2e) (Metric Tons CO2e)
Italy 2,359 521 5,539 0 0 1,585 0
Japan 6,215 1,291 15,533 0 0 7,593 7,593
Malaysia 525 112 1,229 0 0 817 0
Mexico 3,266 686 7,491 762 0 2,985 2,985
Netherlands 3,515 1,004 8,948 0 0 3,305 0
New Zealand 73 15 489 0 0 60 60
Norway 212 46 250 0 0 3 0
Philippines 62 17 699 0 0 472 0
Poland 1,089 223 1,384 0 0 925 0
Portugal 0 0 714 0 0 170 0
Russia 2,084 446 2,516 0 0 944 1,116
Singapore 692 178 1,746 0 0 675 675
South Africa 674 146 1,642 0 0 1,538 0
South Korea 6,199 1,458 8,066 0 0 4,173 4,173
Spain 3,400 717 8,360 0 0 1,665 0
Sweden 369 86 232 0 0 3 0
Switzerland 287 58 386 0 0 9 0
Appendix Data Tables
FY22 Fuel & Electricity Consumption (MWh) & Scope 1 & 2 Emissions (Metric Tons CO e) by Country
2
Fuel Consumption Scope 1 Grid Electricity Onsite Solar Onsite Wind Location-Based Scope 2 Market-Based Scope 2
Country/Region (MWh) (Metric Tons CO2e) (MWh) (MWh) (MWh) (Metric Tons CO2e) (Metric Tons CO2e)
Taiwan 1,046 252 2,573 0 0 1,431 1,431
Thailand 449 98 827 0 0 385 0
Turkey 1,011 216 1,990 0 0 862 0
United Arab Emirates 7 2 8 0 0 4 0
United Kingdom 6,540 1,392 8,802 0 0 1,852 0
United States of America 109,891 25,878 342,950 2,144 0 130,290 327
Uruguay 198 41 432 0 0 5 5
Vietnam 184 71 4,780 0 0 3,118 3,118
Total 226,783 50,86822 567,419 11,849 9,540 224,03522 24,90022
22 This metric is part of Management’s Assertion on select sustainability metrics, which PwC has performed limited assurance over for the period from June 1, 2021, to May 31, 2022, as indicated in the Report of Independent Accountants.
Appendix Data Tables
FY22 Total Energy Consumption (MWh)
MWh from Renewable MWh from Non-
Energy Type Heating Value Sources Renewable Sources Total MWh
Fuel LHV (lower 2,550 224,074 226,623
heating value)
Purchased or Acquired Electricity 547,405 41,132 588,537
Sustainable Aviation Fuel 159 0 159
Total 550,114 265,206 815,320
Appendix Data Tables
FY22 Renewable Energy (MWh) by Country and Type
RE Type Onsite RE Power Purchase Agreements Unbundled Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) Alternative Fuels
VPPA:
PPA: North VPPA: RECs: Sustainable
Oregon America Europe RECs: RECs: RECs: RECs: Wind & Aviation
Country Onsite Solar Onsite Wind Avangrid Avangrid Avangrid Biomass Hydroelectric Solar Wind Solar Biogas Fuel Total
Argentina – – – – – – – – 3,257 – – – 3,257
Austria – – – – 745 – – – – – – – 745
Belgium 5,916 9,540 – – 541 12,944 835 7,951 17,223 – 2,550 – 57,500
Brazil – – – – – – – – 137 – – – 137
Canada – – – 6,542 – – – – – – – – 6,542
Chile – – – – – – – 2,460 – – – – 2,460
China 3,026 – – – – – – 386 – 67,440 – – 70,853
Croatia – – – – 86 – – – – – – – 86
Czech Republic – – – – 236 – – – – – – – 236
Denmark – – – – 305 – – – – – – – 305
France – – – – 8,513 – – – – – – – 8,513
Germany – – – – 5,428 – – – – – – – 5,428
Greece – – – – 938 – – – – – – – 938
Hungary – – – – 407 – – – – – – – 407
India – – – – – – – – – 859 – – 859
Indonesia – – – – – – – 465 – – – – 465
Ireland – – – – 790 – – – – – – – 790
Appendix Data Tables
RE Type Onsite RE Power Purchase Agreements Unbundled Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) Alternative Fuels
VPPA:
PPA: North VPPA: RECs: Sustainable
Oregon America Europe RECs: RECs: RECs: RECs: Wind & Aviation
Country Onsite Solar Onsite Wind Avangrid Avangrid Avangrid Biomass Hydroelectric Solar Wind Solar Biogas Fuel Total
Israel – – – – – – – 1,172 – – – – 1,172
Italy – – – – 5,539 – – – – – – – 5,539
Malaysia – – – – – – – 1,229 – – – – 1,229
Mexico 762 – – – – – – – – – – – 762
Netherlands – – – – 8,948 – – – – – – – 8,948
Norway – – – – 250 – – – – – – – 250
Philippines – – – – – – – 699 – – – – 699
Poland – – – – 1,384 – – – – – – – 1,384
Portugal – – – – 714 – – – – – – – 714
South Africa – – – – – – – 1,642 – – – – 1,642
Spain – – – – 8,360 – – – – – – – 8,360
Sweden – – – – 232 – – – – – – – 232
Switzerland – – – – 386 – – – – – – – 386
Thailand – – – – – – – – – 827 – – 827
Turkey – – – – – – – – 1,990 – – – 1,990
United Arab Emirates – – – – – – – 8 – – – – 8
United Kingdom – – – – 8,802 – – – – – – – 8,802
United States of America 1,875 – 110,221 231,851 – – – 3,543 – – – 159 347,648
Total 11,579 9,540 110,221 238,393 52,606 12,944 835 19,555 22,607 69,127 2,550 159 550,114
Appendix Data Tables
Renewable Energy (MWh) Fuel Consumption by Fuel Type Steam, Heat, Cooling Consumption
(MWh) (MWh)
FY22 FY22
Manufacturing (Tier 1) and Textile Dyeing and Finishing (Tier 2)75 FY20 FY21 FY22
Natural Gas 207,938 Steam 0
Renewable Direct Fuel Consumption 487,754 443,212 543,689
Jet Fuel 13,197 Heat 0
% of Total 20% 19% 22%
Sustainable Aviation Fuel 159 Cooling 0
Renewable Electricity Consumption 13,402 29,897 232,256
Hi-Sene 2,960
% of Total 0.4% 1% 7%
Gasoline 804
Renewable Energy Consumption 531,010 479,774 798,393
Biogenic Emissions
Diesel 1,715
% of Total 8% 8% 13% (Metric Tons CO e)
2
Propane 10
FY22
Owned or Operated
Total 226,783
Biomass Renewable 4,660
Renewable Direct Fuel Consumption 365 2,171 2,709
Energy Credits
% of Total 0.2% 1% 1%
Biogenic Emissions 0.0000000017
Renewable Electricity Consumption 310,798 459,127 547,40522 from SAF
Scope 1 Emissions by Gas
% of Total 48% 78% 93%22 (Metric Tons CO 2e) Total 4,660
Renewable Energy Consumption 311,163 461,298 550,11422 FY22
% of Total 36% 58% 67%22 CH 111
4
CO 46,299
2
N O 42
2
Refrigerant CO e 4,415
2
Total 50,868
22 This metric is part of Management’s Assertion on select sustainability metrics, which PwC has performed limited assurance over for the period from June 1, 2021, to May 31, 2022, as indicated in the Report of Independent Accountants.
75 Tier 1 and 2 data includes renewable energy use across footwear only up to FY20, at which point apparel has been added to reporting scope. Owned or operated data includes electricity only; full energy view for FY22 can be seen on the previous pages.
Appendix GRI
This report has been prepared in accordance
with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards.
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
UNGC Principle /
GRI Number Disclosure Location and notes Omission SDG Mapping
2-1 Organizational details FY22 Form 10-K: Item 1. Business: page 1–2
FY22 Form 10-K: Item 2. Properties: page 24
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s Reporting Methodology: page 156
sustainability reporting
FY22 Form 10-K: Item 1. Business: page 1
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point Reporting Methodology: page 156
Nike reports on an annual reporting cycle
Appendix GRI
UNGC Principle /
GRI Number Disclosure Location and notes Omission SDG Mapping
2-4 Restatements of information In cases where shifts in scope, methodology and/or data quality have led to changes in
previously reported performance results, we’ve restated historically reported results.
Sustainability data is shaped by a landscape of evolving methodologies, advancing standards,
and expansions in data accessibility over time. Adapting to these changes while maintaining
comparability in our data is critical to instilling integrity and confidence in the validity of the
insights the data provides. We understand that we must adapt and be nimble to keep pace
with new innovations, broadening data sets, and emerging standards. We continue to focus
on the internal controls in our sustainability data processes and systems.
We have obtained external assurance on select reported metrics (Scope 1 and 2 energy
consumption and emissions, renewable energy including direct fuel use and electricity,
Scope 3 commercial air travel emissions, and inbound and outbound logistics emissions; and
cumulative water restoration funding). More information can be found in the Appendix.
COVID-19 Methodology
Estimation methodology for FY20 Q4 COVID-19 slowdown adjustments are as follows:
− Carbon Scope 1 and 2 Emissions (except for HQ security vehicles); Transportation
Emissions – Activity Data: FY20 Q3 trailing
12 months ((TTM); FY20 Q4 = FY19 Q4). Emissions Factors, Scope: unadjusted FY20.
− Carbon Manufacturing Emissions – Activity Data: FY20 Q4 = percent of FY observed
historically. Emissions Factors, Scope:
unadjusted FY20.
− Waste Manufacturing and Packaging – FY20 Q4 = average of Q1–3.
− Waste DCs, HQs, Air MI – FY20 Q3 TTM.
− Water – FY20 Q4 = average of Q1–3.
Appendix GRI
UNGC Principle /
GRI Number Disclosure Location and notes Omission SDG Mapping
Restatements of information Due to the effects of COVID-19, the fourth quarter of FY20 (March 2020–May 2020) resulted in
lower than normal production, impacting the final measurement year of our FY20 targets and
baseline measurement year of our FY25 targets. To help enable measurement consistency
and avoid the inevitable artificial reductions in performance metrics during this unprecedented
time, continuing our approach from our FY20 NIKE Impact Report, we have adjusted Q4
performance figures for the targets that were most impacted (carbon, waste and water).
These Q4 adjustments generally reflect an FY20 Q3 trailing 12-month view of performance
and provided a more conservative view of where we landed on FY20 targets than would be
rendered using actual performance figures during the global shutdown. These adjustments
had the effect of inflating our footprint to resemble business as usual and were only applied to
targets where we were aiming for a reduction in impact vs. baseline (“reduction targets”) and
to targets where we were aiming to reach a certain percentage (“reach targets”) that share
underlying data with reduction targets. None of the adjustments resulting in meeting targets
that we would not have met if we didn’t normalize our performance to minimize the impact of
the COVID-19 slowdown on our FY20 targets target year and FY25 targets baseline year. We
carried this approach through to measuring performance toward our FY25 targets to ensure
consistency in how we accounted for the pandemic across target periods.”
See more details here.
2-5 External assurance Reporting Methodology: page 156
Assurance Report: page 195
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business FY22 Form 10-K: Item 1. Business: pages 1–7
relationships
FY22 Form 10-K: Item 1A. Risk factors: page 15
FY22 Form 10-K: Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations: page 28
Code of Conduct: page 83
Data Tables: page 182
Appendix GRI
UNGC Principle /
GRI Number Disclosure Location and notes Omission SDG Mapping
2-7 Employees Data Tables: pages 164–170
NIKE, Inc. Management Assertion: page 197
FY22 Form 10-K: Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and
results of operations: page 28
FY22 Form 10-K: Note 21 - Restructuring: page 92
Additional Information
FY22 Unknown Female Female % of Male Male %
Total employees by employment type and gender* HC HC total HC of total
Full-Time 0 27,259 77% 27,607 77%
Part-Time 0 8,315 23% 8,226 23%
Total Regular 0 35,574 100% 35,833 100%
FY22 All
Nike, Inc. employee totals by ethnicity (U.S.)** employees Directors+ VPs
U.S. Racial and Ethnic Minorities 63.0% 34.6% 34.3%
Unknown 1.2% 1.0% 1.7%
White (Not Hispanic/Latino) 35.8% 64.4% 64.0%
2-8 Workers who are not employees We do not have a significant portion of the organization’s activities performed by people who
are not employees.
2-9 Governance structure and composition Governance: page 161
Data Tables: page 170
FY22 Proxy Statement: page 8
FY22 Proxy Statement: page 21–23
* This is Corp, Retail, AirMi, and DC and Global
** This is Corp, Retail, AirMi, and DC and US-Only
Appendix GRI
UNGC Principle /
GRI Number Disclosure Location and notes Omission SDG Mapping
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee
governance body
2022 Proxy Statement: page 20
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body Welcome to NIKE, Inc.
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in Governance: page 161
overseeing the management of impacts
FY22 Proxy Statement: page 23
Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Committee
Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for Governance: page 161
managing impacts
2-14 Role of the highest governance body Reporting Methodology: page 156
in sustainability reporting
2-15 Conflicts of interest Code of Conduct: page 13
2-16 Communication of critical concerns Code of Conduct
Human Rights and Labor Compliance Standards
Speak UP Portal
Statement on Forced Labor
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Committee
governance body
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Committee
highest governance body
FY22 Proxy Statement: page 23
2-19 Remuneration policies FY22 Proxy Statement: pages 25–26
FY22 Proxy Statement: pages 42
Appendix GRI
UNGC Principle /
GRI Number Disclosure Location and notes Omission SDG Mapping
2-20 Process to determine remuneration Compensation Committee
FY22 Proxy Statement: pages 29–34
FY22 Proxy Statement: pages 39
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio FY22 Proxy Statement: page 50
Pay & Benefits: pages 40–41
2-22 Statement on sustainable development Letter from John: page 3
strategy
2-23 Policy commitments Sustainability Commitments
Sustainability Policies
Human Rights and Labor Compliance Standards (2018)
Code of Conduct: page 83
NIKE Code of Conduct
NIKE Code Leadership Standards
NIKE Inside the Lines Code of Conduct
2-24 Embedding policy commitments Sustainability Commitments
Sustainability Policies
Human Rights and Labor Compliance Standards (2018)
Code of Conduct: page 83
NIKE Code of Conduct
NIKE Code Leadership Standards
NIKE Inside the Lines Code of Conduct
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Code of Conduct: pages 83–84
Human Rights and Labor Compliance Standards (2018)
Appendix GRI
UNGC Principle /
GRI Number Disclosure Location and notes Omission SDG Mapping
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and Code of Conduct: page 8
raising concerns
NIKE Inside the Lines Code of Conduct
Speak UP Portal
Human Rights and Labor Compliance Standards (2018)
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations Data Tables: page 173
2-28 Membership associations Impact Partnerships and Collaborations
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Issue Prioritization: page 157
Impact Partnerships and Collaborations
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements FY22 Form 10-K: page 6 UNGC Principle 3
3-1 Process to determine material topics Issue Prioritization: page 157
3-2 List of material topics Issue Prioritization: pages 158–160
3-3 Management of material topics 2022 Form 10-K: page 12
Appendix GRI
UNGC Principle /
GRI Number Disclosure Location and notes Omission SDG Mapping
201-1 Direct economic value generated and 2022 Form 10-K: page 29
distributed
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 2022 Form 10-K: page 9
opportunities due to climate change
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Pay & Benefits: pages 40–50
retirement plans
Jobs at NIKE
3-3 Management of material topics Carbon: pages 102–105
Sustainability Commitments
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Carbon: page 105
NIKE reports its top material volumes, which include renewable materials: cotton and leather;
and non-renewable materials: polyester, rubber and EVA foam. All material types reported
are purchased from external suppliers except for EVA foam, which is sourced internally. Data
reported consists of both direct measurements and estimates. While many materials are
measured directly for a wide variety of products, some volumes are estimated. The majority
of cotton and polyester volume data is sourced using direct measurements, though product
UNGC Principle 8
creation data is used to estimate material volumes for certain parts of the business.
301-2 Recycled input materials used Carbon: page 105
301-3 Reclaimed products and their Waste: page 120
packaging materials
Appendix GRI
UNGC Principle /
GRI Number Disclosure Location and notes Omission SDG Mapping
3-3 Management of material topics Carbon: page 90–110
Sustainability Commitments
Nike Code Leadership Standards: pages 22–23
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Data Tables: pages 176–178, 186–192
GRI: page 194
2022 NIKE CDP
UNGC Principle 8
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the Carbon: pages 90–101
organization
Data Tables: pages 179–181
302-3 Energy intensity GRI: page 194
Data Tables: page 194
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Data Tables: pages 176–178, 186–188
Carbon: pages 90–101
GRI: page 194
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of Nike does not currently measure reductions in energy requirements of products and services.
products and services
Appendix GRI
UNGC Principle /
GRI Number Disclosure Location and notes Omission SDG Mapping
3-3 Management of material topics Water: pages 123–127
Sustainability Commitments
Nike Code Leadership Standards: pages 32-37
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Water: pages 123–127
Additional Information
Contract manufacturers report their freshwater withdrawal volumes and source to NIKE in
accordance with NIKE’s Water Program, which outlines measurement practices and defines
freshwater sources. The facility boundary is equivalent to the property boundary, and
freshwater is inclusive of domestic and manufacturing use.
303-2 Management of water discharge-related Water: pages 123–127
impacts
303-3 Water withdrawal Water: pages 123–127
Additional Information
Contract manufacturers report their freshwater withdrawal volumes and source to NIKE in
accordance with NIKE’s Water Program, which outlines measurement practices and defines
freshwater sources. The facility boundary is equivalent to the property boundary, and
freshwater is inclusive of domestic and manufacturing use.
303-4 Water discharge Nike does not currently report on water discharge.
303-5 Water consumption Water: pages 123–127
3-3 Management of material topics Carbon: pages 90–111
Sustainabilty Commitments
Nike Code Leadership Standards: pages 23-25
Appendix GRI
UNGC Principle /
GRI Number Disclosure Location and notes Omission SDG Mapping
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Data Tables: pages 175–177, 186–188, 192
NIKE, Inc. Management Assertion: pages 198–203
GRI: page 193–194
Additional Information
NIKE converts all energy consumption to kWhe using net calorific value of the direct fuel
consumption, including transportation fuels. Emissions data for HFCs, PFCs and SF are not
6
reported. NIKE has phased out SF and therefore doesn’t have SF emissions. Emissions for
6 6
other greenhouse gases are either not relevant, immaterial or data is not available.
For information on direct and indirect energy consumption, Scope 1 and 2 emissions and
the Scope 3 emissions accounting standard used, see the Management Assertion letter.
Additional breakdowns of Scope 1 and 2 emissions are shown below.
UNGC Principle 8
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Data Tables: pages 178, 186–188
NIKE, Inc. Management Assertion: pages 198–203
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Data Tables: pages 179–181
NIKE, Inc. Management Assertion: pages 198–203
GRI: pages 193–194
Scope 3 Emissions:
Since the FY21 NIKE Impact Report publication in March 2022, NIKE updated the methodology
used to calculate a subset of Scope 3 emissions, starting with FY22 data. These updates were
not deployed to prior years. More information on these methodological changes is below.
The Sustainable Apparel Coalition’s Higg MSI (Higg MSI) is a database of environmental
impact information specific for the footwear and apparel industry and is among many data
sources used to construct NIKE’s Scope 3 GHG emissions footprint. As the primary data
source for quantifying NIKE’s upstream materials emissions (inclusive of raw materials and
materials production), NIKE leverages Higg MSI in a programmatic way to systematically
UNGC Principle 8
calculate the carbon impact of all of its materials used to make product.
Appendix GRI
UNGC Principle /
GRI Number Disclosure Location and notes Omission SDG Mapping
Category 1 – Purchased Goods And Services
Materials used in Product
In FY22, NIKE used Higg MSI version 3.5 as the raw process data source and mapped Higg
processes to NIKE material attributes to calculate impacts on a per kilogram basis, specific
to a Nike material. The material-level carbon impact emission factors are multiplied by the
volume of those respective materials used in product based on produced units in any given
year. Prior to FY22, NIKE used an earlier version of the Higg MSI database to estimate the
impact of all NIKE materials. Further, the ability to map NIKE materials processes to Higg data
was not as detailed as today. We’re now able to more accurately align materials attributes (by
process) to individual Higg process-level data.
Materials used in Packaging
Nike uses COMPASS – a third-party packaging life-cycle assessment (LCA) software – to
calculate upstream materials and manufacturing carbon emission factors, to then estimate
the impact of various packaging items including shoeboxes, polybags and hangtags. The
packaging emission factors represent the carbon impact of the production and transport of
materials and the manufacturing emissions associated with each packaging item.
Prior to FY22, all emissions from packaging (e.g. materials and end-of-life) were included in
Category 1 – Purchased Goods & Services. As more granular data has become available, end-
of-life emissions from packaging have been migrated to Category 12 (End-of-Life Treatment of
Sold Products), starting with FY22 data.
Appendix GRI
UNGC Principle /
GRI Number Disclosure Location and notes Omission SDG Mapping
Scope 3 emissions:
Category 12 – End-Of-Life (EOL)
Materials used in Product
NIKE calculated EOL impacts of NIKE product based on derived material types and amounts
used to manufacture product. Each material is classified as a specific category of material-
type including:
− Non-Biodegradable Fossil Plastic
− Biodegradable Biogenic Plastic
− Biodegradable Fossil Plastic
− Non-Biodegradable Biogenic Plastic
− Biodegradable Biogenic Non-Plastics
− Inorganics
For each of these material-type categories, specific EOL carbon impact emission factors are
derived based on the EPA’s Waste Reduction Model (WARM) and derived biogenic carbon
content. The EOL emission factor utilized was specific to each material type, and based
on a weighted average breakdown of 67% landfill and 33% incineration, leveraging the
global average waste treatment pathway for footwear and apparel products. For materials
with biogenic carbon content, the fraction of biogenic and fossil carbon was taken into
account when characterizing emissions. Before FY22, NIKE calculated EOL impacts of
NIKE product based on the number of units produced, regardless of material type, and
utilized an aggregated EOL carbon impact emission factor from the EPA’s Waste Reduction
Model (WARM). The proxy material used from WARM was the “mixed MSW” waste type.
Assumptions on global average waste treatment pathways remain unchanged.
Packaging
Based on waste treatment data from the COMPASS software database, EOL carbon impacts
are calculated using country and material-specific packaging waste treatment data and
emissions factors. This includes assumptions from COMPASS on waste treatment pathways
for specific geographies and material type pairings as well as emissions factors for each
type of treatment (e.g. recycling, landfilling). Prior to FY22, NIKE included the EOL impacts of
Packaging in the “Purchased Goods and Services” category.
305-4 GHG emissions intensity NIKE, Inc. Management Assertion: page 201
Nike reports intensity as kWh per square foot.
Appendix GRI
UNGC Principle /
GRI Number Disclosure Location and notes Omission SDG Mapping
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Carbon: pages 90–111
NIKE, Inc. Management Assertion: pages 198–203
UNGC Principle 8
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Nike does not track emissions of ozone-depleting substances.
(ODS)
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), Nike does not track NOx, SOx, and other air emissions.
and other significant air emissions
Appendix GRI
UNGC Principle /
GRI Number Disclosure Location and notes Omission SDG Mapping
3-3 Management of material topics Waste: pages 111–122
Sustainability Commitments
Nike Code Leadership Standards: pages 25-31
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste- Waste: pages 111–122
related impacts
306-2 Management of significant waste-related Waste: pages 111–122
impacts
UNGC Principle 8
Appendix GRI
UNGC Principle /
GRI Number Disclosure Location and notes Omission SDG Mapping
306-3 Waste generated Data Tables: page 185
GRI: pages 193–194
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Waste: pages 111–122
Data Tables: page 185
306-5 Waste directed to disposal Data Tables: page 185
3-3 Management of material topics Health & Safety: pages 64–68
Nike Code Leadership Standards: pages 38-71, 75-105
403-1 Occupational health and safety management Health & Safety: pages 64–68
system
Nike Code Leadership Standards: pages 17-20
Appendix GRI
UNGC Principle /
GRI Number Disclosure Location and notes Omission SDG Mapping
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and Health & Safety: pages 64–68
incident investigation
403-3 Occupational health services Health & Safety: pages 64–68
Nike Code Leadership Standards: pages 17–20
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and Health & Safety: pages 64–68
communication on occupational health
Nike Code Leadership Standards: page 20
and safety
403-5 Worker training on occupational health Health & Safety: pages 64–68
and safety
Occupational Health and Safety: pages 58–59
Supply Chain Health and Safety
403-6 Promotion of worker health Health & Safety: pages 64–68
Occupational Health and Safety: pages 58–59
Supply Chain Health and Safety
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational Health & Safety: pages 64–68
health and safety impacts directly linked by
Occupational Health and Safety: pages 58–59
business relationships
Supply Chain Health and Safety
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health Health & Safety: pages 64–68
and safety management system
Occupational Health and Safety: pages 58–59
Supply Chain Health and Safety
UNGC Principle /
GRI Number Disclosure Location and notes Omission SDG Mapping
403-9 Work-related injuries Data Tables: page 171
Health and Safety: pages 64–68
403-10 Work-related ill health Data Tables: pages 171
Occupational Health and Safety: pages 58–59
Supply Chain Health and Safety
Pay and Benefits: pages 47–48
3-3 Management of material topics Representation & Hiring: pages 20–40
Pay & Benefits: pages 40–50
Inclusive Culture & Engagement: pages 50–59
Sustainability Commitments
Nike Code Leadership Standards: pages 112–114
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Data Tables: pages 164–170
employees
Representation and Hiring: pages 20–40
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Pay & Benefits: pages 40–41
women to men
UNGC Principle 6
UNGC Principle /
GRI Number Disclosure Location and notes Omission SDG Mapping
3-3 Management of material topics Code of Conduct: pages 83–84
Sustainability Commitments
Nike Code Leadership Standards: pages 106–112
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Data Tables: page 173
incidents of forced or compulsory labor
Code of Conduct: pages 83–84
UNGC Principle 4
3-3 Management of material topics Health & Safety: pages 64–69
Nike Code Leadership Standards: pages 63-71
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using Code of Conduct: page 79
social criteria
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain Data Tables: page 173
and actions taken
Appendix Notes
Reference GRI 2-4: Restatements of information
Dataset Page Reason
Scope 1 Emissions; Direct 49, 110, 180, The factors described below contributed to historical revisions of Scope 1 emissions data. With the updates, scope 1 emissions are +9% historically reported values, for both FY20 and 21.
Fuel Use 182 1. Distribution Centers – Minor formulaic error discovered and corrected in biogas calculations.
2. Offices and Air MI – Expanded the reporting scope to include refrigerants as an emissions source.
Target: 70% Emissions Reduction 3. Headquarter Fleet Vehicles – Gaps in historical diesel fuel and EHQ and Converse HQ fleet were addressed.
in Owned or Operated Facilities
Data tables: Numerous
Carbon Target: 0% Emissions 13, 49, 110, Outbound Transportation Emissions
Change in Manufacturing & 181
Transportation Internal reporting restructuring shifted treatment of Global Store to further consistency in geography reporting. During the shift, minor shipping adjustments that were made post-data lockdown were
absorbed in the transportation emissions calculation system. Historical outbound emissions increased <0.01% as a result.
Data Tables: Scope 3 Emissions:
Manufacturing & Logistics (Metric
Tons CO e)
2
Sbt Footprint FY15-22 (Metric
Tons CO e)
2
Waste Target: 10% Waste 14, 187 Various changes across NIKE’s waste footprint required revisions to historical waste data. These include:
Reduction per Unit in
Manufacturing, DCs, and HQs 1. Finished goods manufacturing footwear waste – Internal waste scrap material guide was updated to reflect evolution in waste tracking capabilities and materials used, establishing more granularity than
was previously available. Material reused in the factory that isn’t considered waste was scoped out of historical waste values as a result. The difference in updated footwear finished goods manufacturing
Waste Target: 100% Waste waste per unit compared to historically reported values of the same scope (FY20, 21) is -<0.5% per year. The revisions impact historically reported enterprise waste diversion by reducing diverted waste
Diverted; 80% Recycled in by <0.01%.
Manufacturing, Packaging, DCs, 2. Finished goods manufacturing apparel waste – Fabric previously reported as downcycled/open loop is now reproduced for another brand in the same factory, enabling the shift to being classified as
and HQs closed loop. Changes were made in tandem with the footwear revisions described above, deployed back to FY20 when the process shift initiated. These changes, together with those from the footwear
scrap material guide updates described above, impacted FY20 and 21 enterprise waste recycling by lowering it <0.5%.
Data table: waste (Metric Tons) 3. Packaging – Formulaic errors in baseline source data transformations were discovered and resolved across footwear, apparel, and accessories packaging, increasing overall FY20 packaging waste by 1%
compared to historically reported values.
Appendix Assurance Report
PwC Assurance to management’s assertion in order for it to about the sustainability metrics, reviewed NIKE has (i) estimated GHG emissions
be fairly stated. The procedures performed supporting documentation in regard to the for certain sources and consumption for
Report in a review vary in nature and timing from, completeness and accuracy of the data in energy metrics for which no primary usage
and are substantially less in extent than, the sustainability metrics, and performed data is available and (ii) in fiscal year 2022,
an examination, the objective of which analytical procedures. changed its reporting boundary to include
is to obtain reasonable assurance about fugitive emissions from refrigerant gas loss
Report of To the Board of Directors of NIKE, Inc.
whether management’s assertion is fairly Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in reporting its Scope 1 emissions for certain
Independent
stated, in all material respects, in order to quantification is subject to significant facilities.
Accountants
We have reviewed the accompanying
express an opinion. Accordingly, we do inherent measurement uncertainty because
NIKE, Inc. (NIKE) management assertion
not express such an opinion. Because of of such things as GHG emissions factors Based on our review, we are not aware of
that the energy & emissions metrics for
the limited nature of the engagement, the that are used in mathematical models to any material modifications that should be
the year ended May 31, 2022 and the
level of assurance obtained in a review calculate GHG emissions, and the inability made to NIKE’s management assertion in
cumulative water restoration funding
is substantially lower than the assurance of these models, due to incomplete scientific order for it to be fairly stated.
metric as of May 31, 2022 (collectively the
that would have been obtained had an knowledge and other factors, to accurately
“sustainability metrics”) in management’s
examination been performed. We believe measure under all circumstances the
assertion are presented in accordance
that the review evidence obtained is relationship between various inputs and the
with the assessment criteria set forth
sufficient and appropriate to provide a resultant GHG emissions. Environmental
in management’s assertion. NIKE’s
reasonable basis for our conclusion. and energy use data used in GHG emissions
management is responsible for its assertion
calculations are subject to inherent
Portland, Oregon
and for the selection of the criteria, which
We are required to be independent and limitations, given the nature and the methods
March 23, 2023
management believes provide an objective
to meet our other ethical responsibilities used for measuring such data. The selection
basis for measuring and reporting on the
in accordance with relevant ethical by management of different but acceptable
sustainability metrics. Our responsibility is
requirements related to the engagement. measurement techniques could have
to express a conclusion on management’s
resulted in materially different amounts or
assertion based on our review.
Our firm applies the Statements on Quality metrics being reported.
Control Standards established by the
Our review was conducted in accordance
AICPA and, accordingly, maintains a The preparation of the energy consumption
with attestation standards established by
comprehensive system of quality control. metrics require management to establish
the American Institute of Certified Public
the criteria, make determinations as to the
Accountants (AICPA) in AT-C section 105,
The procedures we performed were relevancy of information to be included,
Concepts Common to All Attestation
based on our professional judgment. In and make assumptions that affect reported
Engagements, and AT-C section 210,
performing our review, we performed information. The selection by management
Review Engagements. Those standards
inquiries, performed tests of mathematical of different but acceptable measurement
require that we plan and perform the review
accuracy of computations on a sample techniques could have resulted in materially
to obtain limited assurance about whether
basis, read relevant policies to understand different amounts or metrics being reported.
any material modifications should be made
terms related to relevant information As discussed in management’s assertion,
Appendix NIKE, Inc. Management Assertion
NIKE, Inc.’s Management Assertion
Fiscal Year ended or as of May 31, 2022
Energy and Emissions Overview
NIKE, Inc. (“NIKE”) management
For the Fiscal Year ended
is responsible for the selection
May 31, 2022 (FY22)
of the assessment criteria, which
Total Energy76 Consumption (MWh) 815,320 management believes provide an objective
basis for measuring and reporting on the
Renewable Electricity Consumption (MWh / %) 547,405 / 93%
energy and emissions and the cumulative
water restoration funding metrics
Renewable Energy Consumption (MWh / %) 550,114 / 67%
(collectively the “sustainability metrics”)
Scope 1 (Direct) Emissions (Metric tons CO e) 50,868 presented in the tables above. NIKE
2
management is also responsible for the
Scope 2 (Indirect) Location-Based Emissions (Metric tons CO e) 224,035
2 completeness, accuracy, and validity of
the sustainability metrics.
Scope 2 (Indirect) Market-Based Emissions (Metric tons CO e) 24,900
2
Scope 3 (Category 6) Emissions from Commercial Air Travel (Metric tons CO e) 13,297
2
Scope 3 (Category 4) Emissions from logistics (inbound) (Metric tons CO e) 413,998
2
Scope 3 (Category 4) Emissions from logistics (outbound) (Metric tons CO e) 152,869
2
Water Restoration Funding
Cumulative since 2019
program inception, as of
May 31, 2022
Water Restoration project funding (Australia, India, and Pakistan) $975,000
in NIKE’s Extended Cotton Supply Chain (USD)
76 Includes direct fuel use and purchased or acquired electricity consumption.
Appendix NIKE, Inc. Management Assertion
ENERGY AND Emissions Source Scope Description
Renewable − Percentage of global electricity sourced from renewable electricity is calculated as follows: (Renewable Electricity in MWh)/(Total
EMISSIONS
Electricity Consumption Electricity Consumption in MWh) X 100.
− Renewable electricity includes onsite solar and wind consumed, electricity purchased via Energy Attribute Certificates and
Electricity Contracts as described in NIKE’s market-based emissions table below.
Standards
− Total electricity consumption includes electricity, onsite solar and onsite wind consumption.
NIKE captures, calculates, and reports
− Actual activity data is sourced from direct measurement or third-party invoices when possible. Where actual data is not
direct and indirect greenhouse gas
available, consumption is estimated. Our estimation methodology for electricity is described below.
(GHG) emissions data with consideration
of the principles and guidance of the Renewable − Percentage of global energy sourced from renewable energy is calculated as follows: (Renewable Direct Fuel Use in MWh +
World Resources Institute (WRI) and the Energy Consumption Renewable Electricity in MWh) / (Total Direct Fuel Use in MWh + Total Electricity Consumption in MWh) X 100.
World Business Council for Sustainable − Renewable direct fuel includes sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) and biogas.
Development’s (WBCSD) The Greenhouse − Total direct fuel use includes natural gas, hi-sene, diesel, propane, gasoline, jet fuel, sustainable aviation fuel and biogas.
Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting Refer above for total electricity consumption.
and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) − Actual activity data is sourced from direct measurement or third-party invoices when possible. Where actual data is not
(“GHG Protocol”) and the Corporate available, consumption is estimated. Our estimation methodology for natural gas and electricity are described below.
Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and
Retail − Includes NIKE owned or operated NIKE Brand and Converse stores globally.
Reporting Standard: Supplement to the
− Energy consumption includes natural gas and electricity. Natural gas usage outside of the U.S. and Canada (and for landlord-
GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and
managed facilities in the U.S. and Canada), and electricity usage outside of the U.S., Canada, and EU (and for landlord-managed
Reporting Standard, which are recognized
facilities in the U.S., Canada, and EU), is estimated. Our estimation methodology is described below.
external standards.
− Refrigerant leakage from HVAC units are not included in reporting at this time.
Organizational Boundary
Distribution − Includes top 37 NIKE owned or operated DCs globally as of May 31, 2022, which represent approximately 87% of shipped units.
NIKE uses the operational control approach
Centers (DCs) − Energy consumption includes natural gas, hi-sene, diesel, propane, electricity, onsite solar, and onsite wind.
in conformance with the GHG Protocol
− Diesel is used in backup generators.
to report its energy and emissions for
− Propane is used in at least two DCs for scrubbers/ floor sweepers. A portion of propane usage is estimated leveraging known
100% of the facilities where NIKE has
propane usage. Our estimation methodology is described below.
operational control.
− In addition, emissions include fugitive emissions from refrigerant gas loss. Our estimation methodology is described below.
Scope
NIKE’s Scope 1, 2, a subset of Scope
3 emissions (commercial air travel and
outbound and inbound logistics), total
energy consumption, renewable energy
consumption and renewable electricity
consumption reporting coverage is outlined
in the chart on pages 218 and 219.
Appendix NIKE, Inc. Management Assertion
Emissions Source Scope Description
Offices − Includes emissions from building facilities at 4 Headquarter (“HQ”) locations: World Headquarters U.S. (“WHQ”), European HQ,
Greater China HQ (“GCHQ”), and Converse HQ (together covering nearly 11 million ft2). Also includes emissions from non-HQ
office facilities (such as regional sales offices).
− Energy consumption within HQs includes natural gas, diesel, propane, electricity, and onsite solar; within non-HQ offices,
energy consumption includes natural gas and electricity only. Natural gas usage within non-HQ offices outside of the U.S. and
Canada (and for landlord-managed facilities in the U.S. and Canada), and electricity usage within non-HQ offices outside of
the U.S., Canada, and EU (as well as for landlord-managed facilities in the U.S., Canada, and EU), is estimated. Our estimation
methodology is described below.
− Diesel is used in backup generators.
− Propane is used in food services, vendor landscaping services, and some forklifts.
− FY22 represents our first year including fugitive emissions from refrigerant gas loss for our HQ and non-HQ office facilities. Our
estimation methodology is described below. In prior years, this source was reported as a known exclusion in NIKE’s office data.
Air Manufacturing Innovation (Air MI) − Includes NIKE-owned manufacturing facilities and related facilities that are the primary producers of NIKE air units.
− Energy consumption includes natural gas, diesel, propane, and electricity.
− Diesel is used in backup generators.
− Propane is used in a single limited application in one Air MI facility.
− FY22 represents our first year including fugitive emissions from refrigerant gas loss. Our estimation methodology is described
below. In prior years, this source was reported as a known exclusion in NIKE’s Air MI data.
Vehicles − Vehicles include service vehicles at WHQ and GCHQ.
− Fuel consumption includes gasoline.
− Company-leased fleet vehicles for use by employees in other geographies are not included in reporting at this time.
Jets − Includes jet and sustainable aviation fuel from our business travel using NIKE’s corporate jets, operated from the U.S., presented
in Scope 1 emissions.
− FY22 represents our first year including sustainable aviation fuel.
Commercial Travel − Data represents commercial business air travel for all employees across 40 countries.
− Commercial air travel emissions are estimated based on mileage calculated from number and route distance of trips, presented
in Scope 3 emissions.
Outbound Logistics − Data represents approximately 95% of global outbound transportation and distribution of products sold via the following modes
of transportation: air, ocean, truck, and rail. Reported figures reflect well to wheel emissions.
− Emissions from transportation of Converse products outside of North America and transportation of NikeID products
are excluded.
Inbound Logistics − Data represents approximately 95% of global inbound transportation and distribution of finished goods via the following modes
of transportation: air, ocean, truck, and rail. Reported figures reflect well to wheel emissions.
− Emissions from transportation of Converse products outside of North America and transportation of NikeID products
are excluded.
Appendix NIKE, Inc. Management Assertion
GHG Base Data Estimation Methodology
Activity data used to calculate Scope 1 Estimation methodologies employ reasonable assumptions to avoid understating NIKE’s emissions footprint and are described below.
(direct) emissions is sourced from direct
measurements or third-party invoices (e.g., Emissions Source Scope Description
hi-sene, diesel, propane, gasoline, jet fuel,
Natural Gas (retail and non-HQ offices outside Where actual data is not available, natural gas usage is estimated for non-HQ offices outside of the U.S. and Canada, and for
sustainable aviation fuel, and natural gas).
of the U.S. and Canada, and landlord-managed landlord-managed facilities in the U.S. and Canada. Square footage of retail and non-HQ offices per country is used, along with
Activity data used to calculate Scope 2
facilities in the U.S. and Canada) country-level climate assumptions and 2012 Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS) energy use intensity
(indirect) emissions is sourced from third-
(kWh per square foot) based on climate region. In the U.S. and Canada, where some facilities are landlord-managed and visibility
party invoices (e.g., electricity) wherever
related to energy consumption is low, our internal known average country-level energy use intensity is used instead of the
possible and is collected across the
external CBECS benchmark. In FY22, approximately 89% of retail natural gas consumption, and approximately 50% of office
business via a variety of internal processes
natural gas consumption, were estimated. Approximately 89% of reported retail Scope 1 emissions in FY22 were estimated, and
and systems. Scope 3 (commercial air
approximately 37% of reported office Scope 1 emissions in FY22 were estimated.
travel) data used to report GHG emissions
from transporting our employees is
Electricity (retail and non-HQ offices outside Where actual data is not available, electricity usage is estimated for non-HQ offices outside of the U.S., Canada, and EU and
obtained from reports provided by third
of the U.S., Canada, and EU, and landlord- for landlord-managed facilities in the U.S., Canada, and EU. Square footage of retail and non-HQ offices per country is used,
parties which includes number of flights
managed facilities in the U.S., Canada, and leveraging actual FY22 square footage data, along with electricity intensity (kWh per square foot of known FY22 NIKE electricity
and distance data. Activity data used to
the EU) usage in retail or non-HQ offices). In FY22, approximately 54% of retail electricity consumption, and approximately 24% of office
calculate Scope 3 inbound and outbound
electricity consumption, were estimated. Almost 100% of reported retail Scope 2 market-based emissions and approximately 68%
emissions are sourced from third-party
of reported retail Scope 2 location-based emissions in FY22 were estimated. Almost 80% of reported office Scope 2 market-based
invoices (e.g., supplier expenditure including
emissions and approximately 36% of reported office Scope 2 location-based emissions in FY22 were estimated.
weight, transportation type, distance, and
weight/volume) and is collected across the Propane (DC) Propane usage at two DCs is estimated leveraging propane consumption intensity at a comparable DC based on relative
business via a variety of internal processes square footage.
and systems.
As described in this assertion, activity data
for Scope 1 and Scope 2 is sourced from
estimates where actual consumption data
is not available. NIKE continues to work on
obtaining systematic access to more actual
consumption data. Estimates are described
in more detail below. Reported data has
been rounded to the nearest whole number.
Appendix NIKE, Inc. Management Assertion
Emissions Source Scope Description
Fugitive emissions from refrigerant gas loss DCs: Calculated by applying a default emissions leak rate of 10% (sourced from Table 3 of the U.S. EPA’s Direct Fugitive Emissions
(DCs, HQ and non-HQ offices, Air MI) from Refrigeration, Air Conditioning, Fire Suppression, and Industrial Gases published in December 2020) to the total system
capacity across all units. The assumed refrigerant is R-410A.
Air MI & World Headquarters (WHQ): Calculated using material balance77 where possible. When total recharge amount78 is not
available to calculate emissions by material balance, equipment-specific charge capacities and default emissions leak rates from
Table 3 of the U.S. EPA’s Direct Fugitive Emissions from Refrigeration, Air Conditioning, Fire Suppression, and Industrial Gases
published in December 2020 are used. Default emissions leak rates range from 10% to 35% depending upon equipment type.
Unless otherwise known, the assumed refrigerant is R-410A.
Non-WHQ Offices: Refrigerant use intensity (2.0 x 10-7 metric tons refrigerant lost per square foot per year) from The World Bank
Group Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory Management Plan for Internal Business Operations, 2019, was applied to total office
square footage to calculate total office refrigerant emissions. To calculate refrigerant use intensity, one ton of cooling per 500 ft2
is multiplied by a conversion factor of one ton of cooling per one kg of refrigerant charge and then by an assumed leakage rate of
10%. The assumed refrigerant is R-410A.
Global warming potentials for all refrigerant gases come from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fifth
Assessment Report (Assessment Report 5 - 100 year) published in 2014.
77 The Material Balance Method uses a mass balance analysis to calculate releases of refrigerants from equipment and associated emissions, based on: inventory (in storage, not in operating equipment), purchases and sales of refrigerants, and changes in total refrigerant
capacity of equipment during the emissions reporting period. In NIKE’s case: refrigerant emissions from material balance method = (PN - CN) + PS + (CD - RD)
– PN = purchases of refrigerant used to charge new equipment (omitted if the equipment has been pre-charged by the manufacturer)
– CN = total refrigerant capacity of the new equipment (omitted if the equipment has been pre-charged by the manufacturer)
– PS = purchases of refrigerant used to service equipment
– CD = total refrigerant capacity of retiring equipment
– RD = refrigerant recovered from retiring equipment
78 Net sum of charge capacities across equipment types for NIKE operations, where charge capacity is the amount of refrigerant needed to run a refrigeration cycle.
Appendix NIKE, Inc. Management Assertion
Emission Factors Emission Source Type Emission Factor Employed
internal cutoff date, which is 15 days after the
Emissions are reported in metric tons
fiscal year end. Carbon dioxide equivalent Direct Line Connection Not applicable
of carbon dioxide equivalent and include
emissions utilize GWPs sourced from
carbon dioxide (CO ), methane (CH ), Energy Attribute Certificates Where NIKE purchases Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) and retains environmental
2 4 the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
nitrous oxide (N O), and refrigerant R-410A. attributes, NIKE applies these RECs to electricity consumption across owned or
2 Change (IPCC) Fifth Assessment Report
operated facilities, reflecting market boundary considerations. Remaining consumption
(Assessment Report 5–100 year).
Exceptions to reporting CH and N O is converted to CO e using the respective emission factors.
4 2 2
are as follows: Emissions from biofuel renewable energy credits are calculated using biofuel source-
Prior to conversion to CO e, metric tons of
2
specific emission factors applied to CO and to fugitive emissions for CH and N O.
GHG emissions by gas are 79,962, 8, 0.62, 2 4 2
− Facilities’ emissions are reported in
and 2.29 of CO , CH , N O, and R-410A,
2 4 2 Electricity Contracts Where Renewable Energy Credits (RECs, or Guarantees of Origin (GOs)) generated via
CO e, however, within a limited subset
2 respectively. The other GHGs of sulfur
(virtual) power purchase agreements are retained by NIKE, NIKE applies these RECs to
of consumption data, emission factors
hexafluoride (SF ), perfluorocarbons (PFCs)
6 electricity consumption across owned or operated facilities, reflecting market boundary
for other gases (CH , N O) are not
4 2 and nitrogen trifluoride (NF ) are not emitted
3 considerations. Remaining consumption is converted to CO e using the respective
provided. These exceptions include AIB/ 2
by NIKE facilities.
emission factors.
EU Residual Mix Emissions factors, and
Green-e/US Residual Mix. In these cases,
In quantifying market-based electricity Residual Mix U.S. & Canada: NIKE applies residual mix emission factors from Green-e Energy U.S.
CH and N O emissions are sourced from
4 2 GHG emissions, GHG Protocol Scope 2 Residual Mix Emissions Rates.
the next available source in the market-
Guidance: An amendment to the GHG EU: NIKE applies country emission factors from Association of Issuing Bodies (AIB).
based emission factors hierarchy.
Protocol Corporate Standard defines a
Location-Based Factors If none of the above options are available, NIKE uses location-based factors as
hierarchy of factors for quantifying market-
− Commercial Travel emissions are in CO described in the table on the following page.
2 based emissions, in order from highest
due to data availability.
to lowest precision. The table to the right
describes the hierarchy and the relevance
Carbon dioxide emissions and equivalents
to NIKE for the current year reporting79.
resulting from the activities and business
units described above have been determined
on the basis of measured or estimated
fuel and electricity usage, multiplied by
relevant, published carbon emission factors,
which are updated annually according to
an internal policy to use the most recent
emission factors available before the annual
79 In the absence of a contractual instrument (or electricity consumption that exceeds onsite renewables and contractual instruments), NIKE historically applied energy supplier-specific
emission factors when available and met a third-party quality criteria review. Supplier-specific emission factors are not used in FY22 reported data as Power Purchase Agreements
initiated in FY20 and FY21 are used instead.
Appendix NIKE, Inc. Management Assertion
Emissions Source Emission Source Type Emission Factor Employed
This table outlines the emission factor
sources used in FY22 emissions
Scope 1 Natural Gas GHG Protocol Emission Factors from Cross-Sector Tools March 2017
calculations.
Scope 1 Hi-sene GHG Protocol Emission Factors from Cross-Sector Tools March 2017
Scope 1 Diesel GHG Protocol Emission Factors from Cross-Sector Tools March 2017
Scope 1 Propane GHG Protocol Emission Factors from Cross-Sector Tools March 2017
Scope 1 Gasoline GHG Protocol Emission Factors from Cross-Sector Tools March 2017
Scope 1 Jet Fuel GHG Protocol Emission Factors from Cross-Sector Tools March 2017
Scope 1 Sustainable Aviation Fuel GHG Protocol Emissions Factors from Cross-Sector Tools March 2017
Scope 2 Electricity Contractual instruments: (Virtual) Power Purchase Agreements (vPPA); energy attribute certificates (EAC). In FY22,
NIKE applied PPAs/vPPAs and EACs for:
− Facilities in Oregon, U.S. that are in scope of NIKE’s PPA with Avangrid
− Facilities in the U.S. and Canada that are in scope of NIKE’s U.S. vPPA
− Facilities in the European Economic Area that are in scope of NIKE’s EU vPPA
− Facilities in the EU, Greater China (GC), and Asia, Pacific and Latin America (APLA) that purchase solar and/or wind,
biomass, or smallscale hydro unbundled Guarantees of Origin (GOs)/Energy Attribute Certificates (EACs)
Scope 2 Electricity (U.S. and Canada) Green-e Energy US Residual Mix Emissions Rates
For facilities in the U.S. and Canada that do not have contractual instruments, NIKE uses residual mix factors.
Scope 2 Electricity (U.S.) eGRID (location-based)
In the absence of contractual instruments and residual mix factors, NIKE applies a regional/national grid mix factor. This only
applies to landlord-managed facilities in the U.S.
Scope 2 Electricity (EU) AIB European Residual Mixes
For facilities in the EU that do not have contractual instruments available, NIKE uses residual mix factors.
Scope 2 Electricity (Global, IEA World Electricity CO Emissions Factors (location-based)
2
excluding U.S.) In the absence of contractual instruments, residual mix factors, and a regional/national grid mix factor, NIKE applies a protocol
that covers all countries globally. This global protocol serves as a catch-all for any facilities that haven’t obtained an emission
factor from a more granular source in the market-based hierarchy.
Appendix NIKE, Inc. Management Assertion
Uncertainty Emissions Source Emission Source Type Emission Factor Employed
GHG emissions quantification is subject
Scope 3 Air travel GHG Protocol Emission Factors from Cross-Sector Tools March 2017
to significant inherent measurement
(Commercial
uncertainty because of such things as
Travel only)
GHG emissions factors that are used in
mathematical models to calculate GHG Scope 3 Air, Ocean, Truck and Outbound logistics emission factors are sourced in compliance with the European Standards Methodology for calculations
emissions, and the inability of these models, (Outbound Rail Shipping and declaration of energy consumption and GHG emissions of transport services (freight and passengers) DIN EN 16258
due to incomplete scientific knowledge and Logistics) standard (March 2013).
other factors, to accurately measure under
Scope 3 Air, Ocean, Truck and Inbound logistics emission factors are sourced in compliance with the European Standards Methodology for calculations and
all circumstances the relationship between
(Inbound Rail Shipping declaration of energy consumption and GHG emissions of transport services (freight and passengers) DIN EN 16258 standard
various inputs and the resultant GHG
Logistics) (March 2013).
emissions. Environmental and energy use
data used in GHG emissions calculations
are subject to inherent limitations, given the
nature and the methods used for measuring
such data. The selection by management
of different but acceptable measurement
techniques could have resulted in materially
different amounts or metrics being reported.
The preparation of the energy consumption
metrics requires management to establish
the criteria, make determinations as to the
relevancy of information to be included,
and make assumptions that affect reported
information. The selection by management
of different but acceptable measurement
techniques could have resulted in materially
different amounts or metrics being reported.
NIKE recognizes that commercial air travel
and logistics remain an estimate since
unforeseen circumstances can occur (e.g.,
different routes due to adverse weather or
unforeseen aircraft fleet changes), however
the figures presented are considered to be
a reasonable estimate of NIKE’s commercial
air travel and logistics emissions.
Appendix NIKE, Inc. Management Assertion
WATER Scope The project types included in this volume of 6. Drinking water storage and ablution water
NIKE’s water restoration efforts focus on water restored include: system creation (Ayubia National Park
regions in Tier 4 of its extended cotton and Uchhali Complex, Pakistan)
Background
supply chain. NIKE only considers water 1 Agricultural water demand reduction a. VWB Indicator: Annual average
In support of its Water Restoration restored through this portfolio of projects measures (Beed District, Maharashtra volume of water provided
target, NIKE funds project work aimed when calculating progress towards the State, India) b. Calculation Method: Volume Provided
at supporting the long-term resilience water restoration target. Additional water a. VWB (Volumetric Water Benefit) method
of the water basins within its extended restoration that occurs incidentally in Indicator: Reduced consumption
cotton supply chain. Thus far, NIKE has or through unrelated NIKE activities is b. Calculation Method: Consumption 7. Wetland treatment system construction
not implemented water restoration project not included. method (Uchhali Complex and South Punjab,
activities itself, but instead supports project Pakistan)
Estimation Methodology
activities and implementation conducted 2. Land conservation (Nimmie-Caira a. VWB Indicator: Treatment efficiency
by third-party NGOs. Additionally, NIKE NIKE works with project implementation Wetlands, New South Wales (NSW), b. Calculation Method: Volume Treated
partners with third-party engineering firms to partners and third-party engineering firms to Australia) method
calculate approximate restoration volumes quantify volumetric benefits from the water a. VWB Indicator: Avoided runoff
and tracks the volume of water restored restoration projects. This quantification b. Calculation Method: Curve Number 8. Agricultural and irrigation efficiency
through these projects. Since the inception approach aligns with the World Resources method improvements (South Punjab, Pakistan)
of NIKE’s Water Restoration projects in India, Institute’s Volumetric Water Benefit a. VWB Indicator: Agricultural water
Australia, and Pakistan (new in FY22), NIKE Accounting Methodology and uses 3. Wetland restoration and creation demand reduction
has funded $975,000 for the three projects. version 8.0 of the United Nations Food and (Nimmie-Caira Wetlands, NSW, Australia) b. Calculation Method: Withdrawal and
Agricultural Organization (FAO) CROPWAT a. VWB Indicator: Increased recharge Consumption method
program and version 1.2.1 (QSWAT+) of the b. Calculation Method: Recharge method
Soil and Water Assessment Tool (SWAT)
model. Data inputs for quantification are 4. Forest rehabilitation (Ayubia National
provided by the project implementation Park, Pakistan)
partners and estimated volumetric benefits a. VWB Indicator: Avoided runoff
are discussed and confirmed with project b. Calculation Method: Curve Number
partners and third-party engineering firms. method
5. Rainwater harvesting (Ayubia National
Park and Uchhali Complex, Pakistan)
a. VWB Indicator: Increased recharge,
volume captured, and available supply
b. Calculation Method: Volume Provided
and Capture and Infiltration Method
FY22 NIKE, Inc. Impact Report
purpose.nike.com