3 19 34
About This Report Carbon Environmental
Metrics Table
4 25
Dear Reader Water
36
GRI Content Index
6 27
Contributions To The Materials
UN SDGs
30
Biodiversity
10
Environmental Strategy
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This report contains certain “forward-looking statements”, as defined in U.S. securities laws, that are based on Toyota Motor North America, Inc.’s (TMNA’s) current assumptions and expectations, including statements regarding our targets, goals,
expectations, commitments and programs and other strategy, business plans, initiatives and objectives related to the environment, social and governance matters, sustainability, climate change, biodiversity or greenhouse gases. These statements are
typically accompanied by the words “aim,” “hope,” “believe,” ”commit,” “estimate,” “plan,” “aspire” or similar words. All such statements are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of
the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Our actual future results, including the achievement of our targets, goals, commitments or objectives, could differ materially from our projected
results as the result of changes in circumstances, assumptions not being realized or other risks, uncertainties and factors. Such risks, uncertainties and factors include, but are not limited to, those relating to existing or future economic or political instability,
fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates, changes in the funding environment in financial markets and increased competition in the financial services industry, changes in laws, regulations and government policies and the outcome of
current and future litigation and legal and government proceedings and investigations, the ability to meet customer demand, implement corporate strategy and maintain a positive brand image and those relating to existing and future environmental
regulations, including those relating to emissions, fuel economy, noise and pollution, technological advances, interpretations and definitions of renewable energy and/or renewable energy sources, economic and political environments relating to
climate change, sustainability, severe weather, environmental, social and governance matters and/or greenhouse gas emissions in the countries in which TMNA operates, potential liability of TMNA’s operations under regulations developed pursuant to
international climate change related agreements, including about greenhouse gas calculations, reduction methods, and/or offsets, and the nascent and continued development of this report, including the metrics and assumptions used by management
in its preparation. Such risks, uncertainties and factors, as well as others, are discussed in the “risk factors” included in Item 3.D of Toyota Motor Corporation’s (TMC’s) most recent annual report on Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). We urge you to consider all of the risks, uncertainties and factors identified above or discussed in such reports carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements in this report. Toyota and TMNA cannot assure you that the results
reflected or implied by any forward-looking statement will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results will have the forecasted or expected consequences and effects. In addition, historical, current, and forward-looking sustainability-
related statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. The forward-looking statements in our
report are made as of the date this report is first released, unless otherwise indicated, and we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements, including any obligation to adapt them to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About This Report
Toyota Motor Corporation (TMC) is headquartered in Japan and produces an annual
sustainability report, which covers TMC initiatives as well as activities of consolidated
subsidiaries and affiliates around the world.
Toyota Motor North America, Inc. (TMNA) is headquartered in Plano, Texas, and is a
wholly owned subsidiary of TMC.
Toyota Canada Inc. (TCI) is headquartered in Toronto, Ontario, and is a majority owned
subsidiary of TMC, with TMC holding 51%.
To complement TMC’s sustainability reporting, TMNA and TCI have been producing an
annual regional environmental report covering activities in the United States, Canada
and Mexico since 2002. This 2022 report covers environmental performance at North
American manufacturing plants as well as TMNA and TCI activities under the Toyota
and Lexus brands during fiscal year 2022 (April 1, 2021, through March 31, 2022) and
product model year 2021. The reporting period is consistent with TMC’s financial
reporting. Data presented with different dates are clearly indicated.
This report has been prepared with reference to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
Sustainability Reporting Standards. Please refer to the GRI Content Index at the end of
this report.
© November 2022
Contact
Toyota Motor North America, Inc. headquarters in Plano, Texas
Environmental Report Manager
Toyota Motor North America, Inc. | 6565 Headquarters Drive, Plano, Texas 75024
Toyota Canada Inc. | One Toyota Place, Toronto, Ontario M1H1H9
Dear Reader This planet we call home is an amazing These issues are BIG. Even if we at Toyota We continuously evaluate our efforts and
place. It’s full of breath-taking views, achieved everything we are striving for identify areas where we can – and should -
geologic wonders and creatures of all – such as carbon neutrality in our North improve. ln line with our 7th Environmental
shapes and sizes. But lately, we are American operations by 2035 – sadly, we Action Plan, we have put larger efforts into
inundated with news about threats to wouldn’t make much of a dent. the following:
our home planet, including wildfires,
drought, plastics in our waters and That’s why we enlist the help of others • Significantly increasing the amount of
species extinction, as well as the ongoing to support us on our journey to make renewable electricity we purchase
pandemic, economic uncertainty and the life cycle of our vehicles achieve
• Further reducing the amount of water we
other geo-political challenges. zero environmental impact. By working
use across our operations
together, small steps, when done
No aspect of our lives remains untouched. collectively, become big improvements. • Reducing the amount of packaging
So, how do we as individuals and as a Our team members, suppliers and dealers material we use
company respond to these crises? How do are on board, and so are our customers. • L aunching a new program to
How do we provide for we provide for our home planet to be as They all want Toyota to do more. And to encourage our dealers to improve their
awe-inspiring tomorrow as it is today? help THEM do more. environmental performance
our home planet to be as
• Asking our suppliers to step up their
awe-inspiring tomorrow There is no simple answer. We believe the However, we need to pick up the pace
efforts to operate more efficiently and
environmental conversation must include to achieve the transformational change
as it is today? sustainably
four challenges: needed for a sustainable future. At Toyota,
our attention over the past few years has • E xpanding our programs to support
• Climate change been on responses to climate change. critical species like pollinators
We know we can do more. We don’t have
• Water scarcity
the same rigorous and strategic process As these efforts demonstrate, we remain
• Unsustainable production and to address water, materials issues or committed to positively contributing
consumption patterns biodiversity concerns. Therefore, we are to society, finding new ways to grow
• Biodiversity loss looking to develop those processes and to sustainably and reducing Toyota’s
educate team members in North America environmental footprint. Environmental
These challenges are intertwined and on all four primary areas of focus: Carbon, sustainability is a core part of our DNA. We
cannot be solved in a silo. And no single Water, Materials and Biodiversity, as will continue to innovate and continuously
business or organization can solve these outlined in this report. improve to help build a better, smarter and
problems alone. more sustainable future for all. Please join
us and let’s make a better planet.
Tetsuo “Ted” Ogawa Kevin Butt
President and Chief Executive Officer Senior Director, Environmental Sustainability
Toyota Motor North America, Inc. Toyota Motor North America, Inc.
FY2022 Highlights
CARBON CARBON CARBON
52% 1st 22%
OF TOYOTA AND LEXUS MODELS ALL-ELECTRIC VEHICLE, TOYOTA OF TMNA’S ELECTRICITY
HAVE AN ELECTRIFIED OPTION, bZ4X, WENT ON SALE IN THE U.S. CONSUMPTION IS EXPECTED TO
AND MORE ARE ON THE WAY AND CANADA COME FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES
BEGINNING IN 2023
CARBON CARBON WATER
1st 248 132
TOYOTA PORT OPERATION IN THE SHUNT TRUCKS ARE EXPECTED MILLION GALLONS OF WATER
WORLD TO USE 100% RENEWABLE TO BE CONVERTED FROM RESTORED TO THE HARDY RIVER
ELECTRICITY FROM ONSITE DIESEL TO ELECTRIC BY 2025 AS PART OF A PARTNERSHIP WITH
GENERATION IS TLS LONG BEACH THE NATURE CONSERVANCY
IN CALIFORNIA TO RESTORE WATER TO THE
COLORADO RIVER DELTA
MATERIALS MATERIALS BIODIVERSITY
19% 93% 1,922
REDUCTION IN THE WEIGHT OF OF ALL WASTE WAS RECYCLED, ACRES OF POLLINATOR HABITAT
PLASTIC PACKAGING PROCURED REUSED OR REPURPOSED IN 2021 WERE DEVELOPED
BETWEEN FY2018 AND FY2022
Contributions to the UN SDGs
So much needs to be done to solve the critical environmental issues facing the global community – climate change, water scarcity, resource depletion and habitat loss,
to name the big ones.
In September of 2015, the United Nations Together, we are ready to make great
adopted the 2030 Agenda and Sustainable things happen on our journey towards a
Development Goals (SDGs). The 17 SDGs more sustainable future.
and their corresponding 169 targets United Nations
run from 2016 through 2030 and in that To find out more about the 17 UN SDGs, Sustainable
Developmental
time, seek to “free the human race from visit the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals*
the tyranny of poverty and want and to Goals website.
heal and secure our planet.”1 This may
sound like an unrealistic mission, but Toyota’s response to the UN SDGs,
the UN goals are actually achievable – if particularly those addressing Global Toyota
Environmental
governments, businesses, nonprofits, environmental issues, is centered around Challenge 2050
other organizations and even individuals the six far-reaching challenges within the
all do their part. Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050
(Challenge 2050). Each major region is
This year marked the halfway point – we developing strategies and targets to help
are halfway through the 15-year period for the company achieve these challenges.
achieving the SDGs. The pandemic put to Here in North America, Toyota’s activities
a grinding halt many of the advances that supporting both Challenge 2050 and
were being made, and now, there is a lot the SDGs are organized around our
of catching up to do. environmental sustainability focus
areas of Carbon, Water, Materials and
At TMNA, we share the fundamental Biodiversity. Our long-term strategies in Toyota North
mission of the SDGs – to make the world each of these focus areas, supported by America
Focus Areas
better, safer and healthier. Achieving outreach activities, show the steps we’re
the SDGs and the Toyota Environmental taking to address the world’s pressing
Challenge 2050 will take careful planning. environmental problems and become part
MATERIALS BIODIVERSITY OUTREACH
And it will take time. We won’t see of the solution.
progress on this massive scale overnight. * Toyota Motor Corporation (TMNA’s parent company) recognizes additional SDGs as relevant to the global
company. We only list the SDGs here considered relevant to Toyota in North America.
Nonetheless, we do remain committed to
acting, and even to picking up the pace.
More than 46,000 North American
team members are on board as well as
suppliers, dealers and other partners.
Education
Engagement
Communication
Contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals
WATER CARBON
Carbon
SDG 7: Ensure Access to Affordable, Reliable, Sustainable SDG 13: Take Urgent Action to Combat Climate Change
and Modern Energy for All and its Impacts
Access to energy is a key driver of economic growth. Given the world’s growing The global nature of climate change calls for broad cooperation in developing
population, clean energy is more crucial than ever. Energy storage, whether in sustainable, low carbon pathways to the future. Toyota recognizes climate change as
second-life batteries or through stationary hydrogen storage, can help set the stage a global priority issue and has established three aggressive carbon goals to eliminate
for increasing the share of renewable electricity on the grid. Through the Toyota CO emissions from our new vehicle fleet, our own operations, and the vehicle life cycle,
2
Environmental Challenge 2050, Toyota recognizes the connection between using clean all by 2050.
energy and limiting greenhouse gas emissions.
Here in North America, we are working towards improving fuel economy and reducing
Toyota uses energy to power our manufacturing plants, distribution centers and offices. CO emissions from new vehicles by increasing the number of Toyota and Lexus models
2
Our suppliers also use energy to power their facilities. Promoting efficient energy use that are electrified.² We are also working towards reducing absolute CO emissions from
2
and renewable energy sourcing are key components of our Carbon strategy. our facilities and transportation activities and increasing our use of renewable energy.
We are partnering with various stakeholders to advance infrastructure for alternative
fuel vehicles, reduce congestion and develop low carbon fuels. And we are working with
SDG 7: Affordable & TMNA’s Contributions suppliers to communicate our goals and help them find ways to reduce their carbon
Clean Energy
footprint.
On Our Way to 100% Renewable Electricity
Target 7.2 Increase substantially the
share of renewable energy in the In TMNA’s Green Supplier Requirements, suppliers are SDG 13: Climate Action TMNA’s Contributions
global energy mix required to pursue opportunities to reduce energy use
and consider renewable energy options.
Target 13.3 Improve education,
awareness-raising and human and Carbon Targets
Target 7.3 By 2030, double the institutional capacity on climate
global rate of improvement in Environmental Metrics Table - Energy change mitigation, adaptation, GHG Emissions Data
energy efficiency impact reduction and early warning
Water Materials
SDG 6: Clean Water and Sanitation SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production
Water is a precious and finite resource that is critical to the survival of people and the Economic growth and development require the production of goods and services that
planet; yet it is often undervalued. Through the Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050, improve quality of life. But the rapid increase in global consumption of materials has
Toyota recognizes water as a global issue that requires a local response. come at a cost to the environment. Sustainable production and consumption patterns
are required to minimize natural resource depletion and the use of toxic materials as well
Some of Toyota’s North American sites are in water-stressed areas, and our larger
as the waste and pollutants generated. Through the Toyota Environmental Challenge
assembly plants use significant volumes of water during vehicle production, particularly
2050, Toyota acknowledges the need to move away from a throw-away society to a
in the painting process. To conserve water and improve water quality, we are developing
recycling-based society.
water stewardship plans for our sites located in areas of high water stress.
Here in North America, to promote a circular economy and avoid both depletion of
natural resources and environmental pollution from increasing amounts of waste, we
SDG 6: Clean Water & Sanitation TMNA’s Contributions focus on increasing reuse and recycling, reducing waste, and enhancing our use of
sustainable raw materials.
Target 6.4 By 2030, substantially increase water-use efficiency
across all sectors and ensure sustainable withdrawals SDG 12: Responsible Consumption & Production TMNA’s Contributions
and supply of freshwater to address water scarcity and Water Target
substantially reduce the number of people suffering from
water scarcity
Target 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and
efficient use of natural resources
Target 6.6 By 2020, protect and restore water-related
Helping Restore Water Flows in
ecosystems, including mountains, forests, wetlands, rivers, Target 12.4 By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound
the Colorado River Delta
aquifers and lakes management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life
cycle, in accordance with agreed international frameworks,
and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in Chemical Management
order to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and
the environment
Target 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation
Waste
through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse
Target 12.6 Encourage companies, especially large and
transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices Toyota North American
and to integrate sustainability information into their Environmental Report
reporting cycle
Biodiversity Outreach
SDG 15: Life on Land SDG 17: Partnerships for the Goals
Halting biodiversity loss has become a critical endeavor as many species slide towards We recognize that no single entity can achieve the SDGs in isolation. These are shared
extinction. To safeguard these species and their habitats, protected areas have been problems that require a shared response.
designated around the world. Through the Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050, Toyota
The Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050 seeks to create net positive impact, which
recognizes the need to protect species and conserve habitat.
can only be achieved by collaborating with our stakeholders. Through the power of
Toyota owns more than 26,000 acres of land in North America and has facilities in or near collaboration, we hope to create lasting outcomes on a macro scale that will help us
crucial habitats. Our company believes strongly in working in harmony with nature. To build a more sustainable future.
that end, we partner with others to help protect critical habitat and threatened species,
TMNA supports local, national and regional community projects that align with our
certify projects with the Wildlife Habitat Council, and strive to educate both our team
environmental sustainability focus areas of Carbon, Water, Materials and Biodiversity.
members and communities about the importance of biodiversity.
By concentrating our support on organizations that address challenges in these four
core areas, we are building on our environmental commitment beyond minimizing
negative impacts and helping to promote positive environmental change across the
SDG 15: Life on Land TMNA’s Contributions
North American region. We share our know-how and collaborate so that we can build
more than great cars – we are building a better tomorrow by harnessing the power of
collective action.
Target 15.1 By 2020, ensure the
conservation, restoration and
sustainable use of terrestrial and
inland freshwater ecosystems and
Helping Restore Water Flows in the Colorado River Delta SDG 17: Partnerships for the Goals TMNA’s Contributions
their services, in particular forests,
wetlands, mountains and drylands,
in line with obligations under
international agreements Target 17.17 Encourage and The Nature Conservancy: Helping Restore Water Flows
promote effective public,
in the Colorado River Delta
public-private and civil society
Target 15.5 Take urgent and Restoring Habitat partnerships, building on the National Environmental Education Foundation and
significant action to reduce the experience and resourcing Pollinator Partnership: Expanding Pollinator Habitat
degradation of natural habitats, halt Protecting Species strategies of partnerships data, Wildlife Habitat Council: Restoring Habitat
the loss of biodiversity and, by 2020, Helping Restore Water Flows in the Colorado River Delta monitoring and accountability
protect and prevent the extinction
of threatened species The Flight of the Monarch
Environmental Strategy
Respect for the Planet is one
Environmental Focus Areas Across the Vehicle Life Cycle
of our company’s core values.
We demonstrate this value
by striving to go beyond zero Dealership
environmental impact, to
creating a net positive impact for
society and the planet. At TMNA,
we focus our efforts on four
priority issues – Carbon, Water,
Materials and Biodiversity – that
Assembly
Plant
align with Toyota’s corporate
global environmental strategy
and span the vehicle life cycle,
as illustrated in the graphic.
SUPPLIER
We also engage in outreach
activities to promote awareness,
develop strategic partnerships
and share know-how, all to help
build a more sustainable future.
Carbon Water Materials Biodiversity
• Purchasing renewable electricity • Reducing the amount of water we use in • Using sustainable materials in vehicle parts • Planting pollinator gardens and native
production processes species on our sites
• Switching trucks and other transport to low • Reducing waste generation and increasing
carbon powertrains • Encouraging suppliers and dealers to reduce recycling • Working with suppliers and dealers to
their water use develop pollinator habitat
• Encouraging suppliers and dealers to reduce • Managing chemicals safely and finding
CO2 emissions • Working with nonprofit organizations to suitable alternatives • Partnering with nonprofit organizations to
conserve water and educate people about expand pollinator habitat and educate the
• Offering a portfolio of lower and zero • Encouraging suppliers and dealers to reduce
water issues public about biodiversity
carbon vehicles their waste and recycle more
Goals and Targets
GRI 2-22, 3-3
Toyota’s long-term aspirations are outlined in the Toyota Environmental Through Challenge 2050, team members across the company, in every region of
Challenge 2050. Mid-term milestones have also been established, as well as the world, are working to put Toyota’s global vision of Respect for the Planet into
short-term (five-year) targets. action. Challenge 2050 unites us all with a common purpose – to be more than just
good stewards of the environment and to create positive changes beyond our facility
boundaries.
Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050
Within TMNA, we continue to refine a regional environmental sustainability strategy to
align Toyota’s global values and Challenge 2050 with our regional focus areas – Carbon,
Water, Materials and Biodiversity. In each focus area, we are working towards minimizing
environmental impacts and, through outreach activities, towards a net positive impact on
society and the planet.
The Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050 (Challenge 2050) is a set of six visionary,
global challenges that seek to go beyond eliminating negative environmental impacts
to creating positive value for the planet and society. Toyota Motor Corporation (TMC, Watch the Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050 video
TMNA’s parent company headquartered in Japan) announced these six challenges in
2015 after extensive research and internal and external consultation. The challenges
apply to all Toyota subsidiaries around the world.
The six challenges are:
New Vehicle CO Emissions Challenge – Reduce CO emissions from new vehicles
2 2
by 90% (2010 baseline)
Operations CO Emissions Challenge – Eliminate CO emissions from operations3
2 2
Life Cycle CO Emissions Challenge – Eliminate CO emissions from suppliers and
2 2
dealers
Water Conservation Challenge – Conserve water and protect water resources The Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050 outlines the
Recycling-Based Society Challenge – Support a circular economy company’s global aspirations to achieve carbon neutrality and
Harmony with Nature Challenge – Conserve biodiversity, protect species and
have a positive impact on the planet and society.
restore habitats
Mid-Term Milestones
TMC has established several global mid-term milestones, including those below, to help the company achieve the Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050.
Toyota Environmental
Global Milestone TMNA Contributions and Milestones
Challenge 2050
Reduce global average CO2 emissions (grams/ CO2 emissions per mile from TMNA’s new vehicles have decreased 41% since 2010.
kilometer) from new vehicles by 35% or more by CO2 emissions per mile from TCI’s new cars have decreased 23% since 2012.
2030, compared to 2010 levels.
TMNA Milestones:
In the U.S., Toyota has targeted 70% electrified new vehicle sales (excluding performance vehicles) by 2030.
Reduce CO2 emissions throughout the vehicle TMNA defines vehicle life cycle to include suppliers, logistics and dealerships.
life cycle by 25% or more by FY2030, compared • We are requiring suppliers to reduce absolute CO2 emissions by 14% by FY2026, from FY2018 levels.
to 2013 levels. • It may prove difficult to reduce emission from logistics by 2030, given the forecasted availability of fuel cell and electric
powertrains for the trucking fleets.
• Sixteen dealerships are participating in the Dealership Environmental Excellence Program, 6 of which use
renewable electricity.
Achieve carbon neutrality at global TMNA defines carbon neutrality to apply to all facilities, not just manufacturing plants. Total Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions
manufacturing plants by 2035. are 20% lower than they were in FY2018. This is due to GHG efficiency measures and increases in renewable electricity
purchases. We are on track to becoming carbon neutral at our facilities by 2035.
TMNA Milestone:
In the U.S., Toyota is targeting reducing GHG emissions at nine plants by 50% by FY2030 (from a baseline of FY2018), through
energy efficiency measures and building renewable energy generation. This target was set as part of the U.S. Department of
Energy’s Better Climate Challenge.
Complete impact assessments by 2030 at each We are implementing the International Water Stewardship Standard, developed by the Alliance for Water Stewardship
of the 22 plants in North America, Asia and (AWS). We are currently piloting the AWS Standard at our assembly plant in Baja California, Mexico, and plan to roll out
Europe where water is discharged directly into to additional sites in the future.
a river.
Complete the establishment of battery We are working with our partners to create a sustainable, closed-loop battery ecosystem at our new battery manufacturing
collection and recycling systems globally by plant in North Carolina. Our current battery recycling program in the U.S. has collected and recycled or remanufactured over
2030. 178,000 hybrid vehicle batteries since 2010.
Contribute to biodiversity conservation We are supporting the development of at least 26,000 acres of pollinator habitat in North America by FY2026. In FY2022,
activities in collaboration with NGOs and other 1,547 acres of pollinator habitat were developed through a collaboration with Pollinator Partnership. TMNA has also
partners. developed 375 acres of pollinator habitat on its own lands, mostly through our partnership with Wildlife Habitat Council®.
This brings the total number of acres to 1,922.
Environmental Action Plan Targets
North American environmental sustainability planning, strategies and actions are driven by Environmental Action Plans, which are five-year roadmaps that help achieve incremental
progress towards the global milestones and the Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050.
Focus Area 7th EAP Targets FY2022 Progress
∆ 52% of models are electrified
Offer electrification across the Toyota and Lexus lineups by around 2025
Achieve 40% electrified new Toyota vehicle sales in the U.S. (by unit) by ∆ 25% of sales by unit in the U.S. were electrified in 2021
2025 (excluding performance vehicles)
Carbon
Currently at 4.3%, but have two virtual power purchase agreements (VPPAs) coming online in 2022
Increase purchased renewable electricity to 45% or more of total
∆ and 2023 that are expected to bring us above 20%. This target also supports the mid-term
electricity purchased by 2025
milestone for all facilities to be carbon neutral by 2035.
Reduce absolute CO2 emissions from logistics by 15% from FY2018 levels, We do not expect to be able to meet this target, given the forecasted availability of fuel cell and
X
by FY2026 electric powertrains for trucking fleets.
Reduce absolute CO2 emissions from suppliers by 14% from FY2018 Supplier companies submitted CO2 data to us for the first time in FY2022. We expect to begin
O
levels, by FY2026 tracking emissions reductions in the near future.
Expand participation in the Dealer Environmental Excellence Program to
∆ 16 dealerships are already participating, 6 of which use renewable electricity.
100 dealerships by FY2026
Reduce water use per unit of vehicle production by 5% by FY2026, from
O 1% reduction in water intensity, FY2020-FY2022
FY2020 levels
Water
Reduce single-use plastics at on-site food services by FY2026 by 75% O Due to COVID-related delays in employees coming back to the office, we did not make much
progress on this target last fiscal year. We expect to see progress in FY2023.
Reduce procurement of single-use packaging materials by 25% by ∆ Based on our estimates, we have reduced the use of single-use packaging materials by
Materials FY2026, from FY2018 levels approximately 19% compared to the FY2018 baseline.
Implement a closed-loop battery recycling program by FY2026 to support ∆ We are working with our partners to create a sustainable, closed-loop battery ecosystem at the
our new battery manufacturing plant in North Carolina North Carolina battery manufacturing plant. Toyota and Redwood Materials are exploring a series
of end-of-life battery solutions.
Support the development of at least 26,000 acres of pollinator habitat in
∆ At the end of FY2022, we had supported 1,922 acres and we have more planned for FY2023.
North America by FY2026
Biodiversity
Environmental Sustainability Governance
GRI 2-9, 3-3
TMNA’s Sustainability and Regulatory developing short-, medium- and Representatives from these divisions
Affairs (SRA) division handles product long-term sustainability strategies for also participate in focus groups that North American Executive
environmental and safety regulation, TMNA, including planning and target concentrate on specific environmental Committee
energy and climate research, setting in alignment with the Toyota issues, such as water or biodiversity. These (Representatives of Toyota entities in
environmental sustainability, enterprise Environmental Challenge 2050, which focus groups report to the Environmental North America)
chemical management, and engine includes developing consolidated five- Sustainability Working Group and help
certification and compliance. Separately, year environmental action plan goals implement environmental action plan
TMNA Environmental Sustainability
TMNA’s Environmental & Facilities (E&F) and targets. ES is also responsible for targets, perform benchmarking and data
(Kevin Butt, ES Senior Director/NAEC
division handles facility environmental and developing the annual North American gathering activities, and raise awareness
Secretariat)
safety regulatory compliance. Environmental Report. ES reports progress among team members and external
on these activities to the North American stakeholders.
The Environmental Sustainability (ES) Executive Committee (NAEC). Environmental Sustainability
group within SRA is responsible for Working Group
ES facilitates an Environmental Working Group as a coordinating mechanism for
TMNA. The group is comprised of environmental experts and representatives from
various divisions:
• Sustainability and Regulatory Affairs • Real Estate Property Services
• Research and Development • Environmental & Facilities
• Procurement • Legal
• Corporate Communications • Toyota Canada Inc. (TCI)
• Compliance and Audit • Parts Supply Chain Operations
• Logistics • Manufacturing Engineering Division
• Enterprise Strategy
Toyota Motor North America, Inc. headquarters in Plano, Texas
Environmental ISO 14001 Certifications of Toyota’s
Location Original Certification Date
North American Facilities
Management
Manufacturing Plants Huntsville, Alabama 2005
Environmental management systems are
an essential part of Toyota’s overall effort
GRI 3-3 Long Beach, California 1998
to minimize risks and achieve leading
TMNA relies on strong management levels of environmental performance.
Princeton, Indiana 1999
processes to achieve leading An environmental management system
environmental performance. (EMS) provides a framework for identifying
Georgetown, Kentucky 1998
significant environmental aspects and
impacts and setting corresponding Troy, Missouri 1998
controls, goals and targets to manage
and reduce these impacts over time. Blue Springs, Mississippi 2012
The facilities listed in the chart have
had their environmental management Jackson, Tennessee 2007
systems third-party certified to ISO
14001, the International Organization San Antonio, Texas 2008
for Standardization’s standard for
designing and implementing an effective Buffalo, West Virginia 2000
environmental management system.
Woodstock, Ontario (Canada) 2009
Cambridge, Ontario (Canada) 1998
Tijuana, Baja California (Mexico) 2006
Apaseo el Grande, Guanajuato
2021
(Mexico)
Vehicle Distribution Centers Montreal, Quebec (Canada) 2003
Toronto, Ontario (Canada) 2001
Vancouver, British Columbia
Parts Distribution Center 2002
(Canada)
Clarington, Ontario (Canada) 2022
Canadian Sales Headquarters in
Sales Regional Offices 2001
Toronto, Ontario
Pacific Regional Office and TFS 2002
Quebec Regional Office and TFS 2005
Prairie Regional Office and TFS 2008
Atlantic Regional Office and TFS 2006
LEED® Certifications Toyota’s North American Facilities With LEED® Certifications
BD+C = Building Design + Construction
Seventeen Toyota and Lexus facilities have achieved Leadership in Energy and Environmental
ID+C = Interior Design + Construction
Design (LEED®) certification. LEED® is a point-based system administered by the U.S. and
O+M = Operations and Maintenance
Canadian Green Building Councils promoting a whole-building approach to sustainable
construction and remodeling. LEED certification is based on meeting stringent requirements in
Toyota Facility Location Year Certification Level
sustainable site development, water savings, energy efficiency, materials selection and indoor
environmental quality. Ranging from office space to vehicle distribution centers, these facilities
Toyota Financial Services West Chandler, Arizona 2021 ID+C Gold
represent Toyota’s continued efforts to improve the design and efficiency of all operations.
Toyota Motor North America is a platinum member of the U.S. Green Building Council.
Toyota Financial Services East Alpharetta, Georgia 2021 ID+C Silver
Further, Toyota has three projects pursuing LEED certification: the renovation of the vehicle
Production Engineering &
logistics facility at the Port of Long Beach in California, the newly constructed visitor center at Georgetown, Kentucky 2019 BD+C Platinum
Manufacturing Center
the assembly plant in Mississippi, and the new parts distribution center in Clarington, Ontario.
Toyota Supplier Center York Township, Michigan 2019 BD+C Platinum
Additionally, the parts distribution center in Ontario has earned Zero Carbon Building design
certification from the Canadian Green Building Council.
Centro de Entrenamiento Toyota San Luis Pozos, Mexico 2018 O+M, Platinum
Toyota Motor North America
Headquarters (Office Towers, High
Plano, Texas 2017 BD+C Platinum
Bay Evaluation Building, Vehicle
Delivery Center)
Chicago Service Training Center Aurora, Illinois 2015 BD+C Gold
Lexus Eastern Area Office Parsippany, New Jersey 2014 ID+C Platinum
Toyota Kansas City Training Center Kansas City, Missouri 2012 BD+C Gold
Toyota Inland Empire Rancho Cucamonga,
2010 ID+C Gold
Training Center California
Toyota Technical Center York Township, Michigan 2010 BD+C Gold
Toyota Racing Development Salisbury, North
2010 BD+C Certified
North Carolina Carolina
Lexus Florida Training Center Miramar, Florida 2009 ID+C Gold
Toyota Phoenix Training Center Phoenix, Arizona 2009 ID+C Silver
North America Production
Georgetown, Kentucky 2006 ID+C Silver
Support Center
Toyota Motor North America, Inc. Washington, D.C. 2016 ID+C Silver
Portland Vehicle Distribution Center Portland, Oregon 2004 BD+C Gold
Compliance
GRI 2-27
Many of Toyota’s activities in vehicle development, manufacturing and logistics are
subject to local, state, provincial and federal laws that regulate chemical management,
air emissions, water discharges, storm water management, greenhouse gas emissions,
and waste treatment and disposal. These regulations vary by facility based on the type of
equipment operated and the functions performed.
In this report, we disclose the number of environmental violations in the U.S., Canada and
Mexico that resulted in air or water pollution. We report violations in the year in which they
occurred. In FY2022, our North American manufacturing plants and logistics sites had zero
environmental regulatory violations that resulted in air or water pollution.
Environmental Violations Resulting in Air or Water Pollution
FY2019 FY2020 FY20214 FY20225
Number of violations 0 0 0 0
4 In January 2021, Toyota paid a civil penalty of $180 million to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to a Consent Decree to resolve investigations stemming from a self-reported process gap in fulfilling certain emissions defect information
Stakeholder Engagement
GRI 2-28, 2-29
TMNA engages with a range of stakeholders on our environmental sustainability strategy and initiatives.
Category of
Purpose of Engagement
Stakeholders
Team members We engage with team members (the term we use to refer to employees) to educate them about the importance of environmental sustainability and to solicit their input and expertise to
help us meet our goals and targets.
Customers Customers and consumers are increasingly concerned about global issues such as climate change and are looking for large companies to offer low carbon solutions. We continuously
engage with customers to educate them about our hybrid technology and alternative powertrain vehicles. We also educate them about how we are reducing our environmental impacts
across the vehicle life cycle.
Suppliers Toyota’s North American supply chain represents the majority of our environmental footprint in the region. We engage with suppliers to help us reduce our environmental impacts across
the vehicle life cycle. We partner with them to use more sustainable materials in vehicle parts and we collaborate with them on efforts to reduce waste and packaging. We also engage
with suppliers through Suppliers Partnership for the Environment, which provides a forum for global automotive manufacturers, their large and small suppliers, the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) and other government entities from around the world to work together towards a shared vision of an automotive industry with positive environmental impact.
Dealerships We engage with dealerships through our newly launched Dealer Environmental Excellence Program (DEEP), which provides guidance and incentives to Toyota and Lexus dealerships
and recognizes them for positive environmental performance. The program targets continuous operational improvement in six categories: energy use, water consumption, waste, indoor
environment, community outreach, and connecting with nature. Participating dealerships can earn up to five stars in each category for tracking environmental performance data, achieving
minimum performance benchmarks, implementing improvement projects and aligning with the Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050. We began recognizing high performing dealers in
2022.
Regulatory agencies We engage with regulatory agencies at the federal, provincial, state and local levels to secure necessary environmental permits and comply with regulatory requirements. We also engage
with regulators on the content of proposed rules to facilitate collaboration and understanding.
Investors TMNA engages with investors, including environmental, social and governance (ESG)-focused investors, to respond to requests for information and to keep them apprised of our vehicle
electrification plans. We also follow developments related to regulatory financial filings, such as the climate-related disclosure rule recently proposed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.
Local communities We engage with communities through outreach activities conducted locally by individual sites. These activities allow us to volunteer and share know-how in support of our efforts to create
net positive impacts in the areas of Carbon, Water, Materials and Biodiversity.
Nonprofit organizations We engage with nonprofit organizations in support of our efforts to create net positive impacts in the areas of Carbon, Water, Materials and Biodiversity. Examples include World Wildlife
Fund, Wildlife Habitat Council, Pollinator Partnership, The Nature Conservancy, and National Environmental Education Foundation.
Membership in TMNA is a member of trade and other membership associations to educate others about our efforts and positions, help them develop climate-related and other policy positions, participate
associations in research and other projects, and leverage their expertise to help us scale up our efforts to reduce our environmental impacts. These associations include but are not limited to:
Alliance for Automotive Innovation (Chris Reynolds, TMNA’s chief administrative officer, is on the Board of Directors)
Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG)
Clean Energy Buyers Alliance (CEBA)
Environmental Law Institute (ELI) (Chris Reynolds is on the Board of Directors)
Resources for the Future (RFF) (TMNA is a member of RFF’s Business Leadership Council)
Suppliers Partnership for the Environment (SP)
TMNA and TCI are also members of several industry associations that foster the development and deployment of hydrogen and fuel cell technologies.
These include but are not limited to:
California Hydrogen Business Council (CHBC)
California Hydrogen Coalition (CHC)
Fuel Cell & Hydrogen Energy Association (FCHEA)
Renewable Hydrogen Alliance (RHA)
Commitment to Carbon Neutrality TMNA is addressing carbon emissions in performance, including energy efficiency and
the following ways: CO emissions reductions. For information on
2
GRI 3-3 how we’re reducing emissions from logistics,
1 Reducing vehicle CO emissions by see our story on Zero-Emissions Trucking.
2
In this report, we use the term “CARBON” introducing more electrified6 vehicles and
to refer to carbon dioxide (CO) emissions, by making our internal combustion engines
2
the main greenhouse gas (GHG) linked more fuel efficient: Zero emissions from
to climate change. Transportation is
our vehicles is the ultimate goal and we
responsible for nearly one quarter of
believe the path to getting there is with
the world’s GHG emissions and as an
a portfolio approach – fuel cell vehicles,
automotive company, TMNA is committed
hybrid vehicles, plug-in hybrid vehicles
to doing our part to help the world
and battery electric vehicles. Offering a
Carbon transition to a low carbon economy. We
range of low emission vehicles means we
aim to be carbon neutral at all of our North
American facilities by 2035 and across the should be able to reduce as much CO
2
vehicle life cycle no later than 2050. as possible as soon as possible, which in
Sustainable Development North America means offering more plug-
Goals 7 and 13 seek to Carbon neutral means we aim to reduce in hybrids and hybrids until the alternative
accelerate the transition our Scope 1 and 2 emissions to the greatest fueling infrastructure for hydrogen fuel cell
extent possible, then rely on offsets, if and all-electric vehicles expands. For more
to sustainable energy
necessary, to get us to zero CO emissions. on our portfolio approach, see our story,
sources and combat We also include Scope 3 emissi2 ons in our
Electric Avenue.
climate change. By finding carbon neutrality target so that by 2050, we
aim to have zero CO emissions across our
ways to increase our use 2 2 Eliminating CO from our operations by
entire vehicle life cycle. 2
of renewable energy and investing in on- and off-site solar and wind
eliminate CO emissions, we projects, implementing energy efficiency
2 projects and investigating ways to reduce
are working at every stage
our thermal load: We have a goal that
of the vehicle life cycle to TMNA’s Carbon Position all of our facilities will be carbon neutral 2023 bZ4X Limited
help the world build a low Statement: by 2035. See our story on the Toyota
carbon future. Port Facility in California that is close to
Transportation is responsible for achieving carbon neutrality.
one quarter of the world’s GHG
emissions and as an automotive 3 Partnering with suppliers and dealers to
company, TMNA is committed to eliminate CO emissions from our value
2
doing our part to help the world chain: Toyota requires direct parts, materials
transition to a low carbon economy. and accessory suppliers to commit to
TMNA acknowledges climate change reducing CO emissions by at least 3%
2
as a priority management issue per year. We have set a target for logistics
and supports the goals of the Paris suppliers to reduce emissions from the
Agreement, a pact adopted by 196 transportation and distribution of parts,
countries that commits to reducing accessories and finished vehicles by 15% by
GHG emissions in order to keep FY2026, and another target for our dealers to
warming well below 2° Celsius, and participate in our new Dealer Environmental
to pursue efforts to limit warming to Excellence Program (DEEP), which
1.5° Celsius. encourages improvements in environmental
2026 2030 2035 2050
Increase electrified new
Toyota vehicle sales to 70%
in the U.S. (by unit)
Reduce absolute CO₂ Reduce GHG emissions Achieve carbon neutrality at
emissions from logistics by from nine U.S. plants by 50% all North American facilities
15% from FY2018 levels between fiscal years 2018
and 2030, through energy Reduce absolute CO₂ efficiency measures and emissions from suppliers 14% building renewable energy from FY2018 levels generation
Expand participation in
DEEP to 100 dealers
selciheV )3
epocS(
Current Future
snoitarepO
srelaeD
dna
sreilppuS
)2 & 1 sepocS(
)3
epocS(
Our Path to Carbon Neutrality
Toyota as a company aims to achieve carbon neutrality globally by 2050. In North America, we have a number of milestones between now and then to put us on the right path.
2022 2025
Toyota’s first all-electric
vehicle, the bZ4X, went on Offer electrification across
sale in the U.S. and Canada the Toyota and Lexus lineups
Increase electrified new
Toyota vehicle sales to 40%
in the U.S. (by unit)
TMNA began purchasing Increase purchased
electricity through our first renewable electricity to 45%
virtual power purchase or more of total electricity
agreement (VPPA) with purchased in North America Clearway Energy Group New EV battery Achieve in West Virginia, which manufacturing facility is carbon is expected to generate expected to open in North neutrality
166,615 MWh of electricity Carolina with production across
for TMNA lines for making batteries for the vehicle
both fully electric vehicles life cycle
and hybrid vehicles
Launched an updated Green
Supplier Requirements
document and launched
the Dealer Environmental
Excellence Program (DEEP)
Carbon Targets
GRI 3-3
Vehicles Operations Life Cycle
Our vehicle targets beginning in FY2022 are to:
Our operations targets beginning in Our targets for suppliers, logistics
FY2022 are to: activities and dealers are to:
• Offer electrification across the Toyota and Lexus lineups by around 2025.
• I ncrease purchased renewable electricity • Reduce absolute CO emissions from
• Achieve 40% electrified new Toyota vehicle sales by 2025 and 70% by 2030 (by unit, 2
excluding performance vehicles). to 45% or more of total electricity logistics by 15% from FY2018 levels, by
FY2026.
purchased by FY2025.
As of August 2022, there were 19 Toyota and Lexus electrified vehicle models on the
• Reduce absolute CO emissions from
market in North America, with more on the way. In 2021, TMNA was the number one seller • Reduce GHG emissions at nine U.S. 2
suppliers by 14% from FY2018 levels, by
of electrified vehicles in the U.S. for the 22nd consecutive year. plants by 50% by FY2030, from a FY2018
FY2026.
baseline (U.S. Department of Energy
Better Climate Challenge target). • Expand participation in the Dealer
Environmental Excellence Program to 100
% of Toyota + Lexus Models with % of New Toyota Vehicles Sold
• Achieve carbon neutrality at all North dealerships by FY2026.
Electrified Options that are Electrified
American facilities by 2035.
Logistics: This target will be difficult to
100% As of the end of FY2022, the portion of meet given the forecasted availability of
electricity purchased by TMNA that was fuel cell and electric powertrains for the
70%
renewable was 4.1%. This percentage trucking fleets. However, we continue
52% 40% is expected to increase significantly in to make progress. Toyota has converted
25% FY2023 as the first of our virtual power 18 shunt trucks from diesel to EV at
purchase agreements comes online. See manufacturing plants, parts centers and
our story on Renewable Electricity. cross docks. When all 248 shunt trucks are
converted by the end of 2025, we expect
2021 2025 Target 2021 2025 Target 2030 Target Total Scope 1 and 2 CO 2 emissions to avoid approximately 15,000 metric tons
increased by 5% in FY2022 compared of CO annually.
to FY2021, mainly due to an increase in 2
CO 2 emissions per mile from TMNA’s new vehicles have decreased 41% since 2010. For production related to easing of pandemic- Suppliers: Supplier companies submitted
information on fleet GHG emissions, see GHG Emissions Data. related restrictions. Despite the increase, CO data to us for the first time in FY2022.
2
emissions are still 20% lower than they We expect to begin tracking emissions
were in FY2018. This is due to GHG reductions in the near future.
efficiency measures and increases in
renewable electricity purchases. We are Dealers: Sixteen dealers are already
on track to meeting our Better Climate active in our newly launched Dealership
Challenge target by FY2030 and becoming Environmental Excellence Program and six
Toyota has been the number one seller of electrified vehicles
carbon neutral at our facilities by 2035. have committed to using more renewable
in the U.S. for 22 consecutive years. energy.
GHG Emissions Data GHG Emissions Intensity
FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5
GHG Intensity 0.66 0.62 0.63 0.62
TMNA uses The GHG Protocol: A Corporate eGRID emission factors. For sites in
Accounting and Reporting Standard, Canada, provincial emission factors are Numerator: Scope 1+2 emissions from all Toyota North America locations, including assembly
Revised Edition (published by the World sourced from Canada’s National Inventory and unit plants, offices and warehouses
Resources Institute and the World Business Report, and for Mexico, a country-specific Denominator: Number of vehicles produced in North America
Council for Sustainable Development) emission factor is sourced from Carbon
to develop an annual GHG emissions Footprint Country Specific Electricity Grid
GHG Reductions As A Direct Result of GHG Efficiency Measures
inventory. TMNA follows the financial Greenhouse Gas Emissions Factors v1.4,
control approach. September 2020. Metric Tons C0 2
FY2022
Calculations of Scopes 1 and 2 emissions Three of Toyota’s U.S. manufacturing
include CO only. plants are classified as large emitters
2 Scope 1 3,039
and as such, are required to report
Scope 1 sources include stationary GHG emissions data under U.S. EPA’s Scope 2 18,936
combustion (such as burning natural Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program.
gas for energy) as well as owned mobile Individual plant data for our assembly TOTAL 21,975
sources (such as Toyota-owned fleet plants in Kentucky, Texas and Indiana are
Scope: GHG efficiency measures include energy and GHG efficiency improvements plus on-
vehicles and owned logistics trucks). available on the U.S. EPA’s website through
site solar projects. Does not include CO reductions from the implementation of virtual power
its online data publication tool. 2
purchase agreements.
Scope 2 emissions include consumption
of purchased electricity from Toyota sites In Canada, Toyota’s Cambridge and
in North America. Scope 2 emissions Woodstock, Ontario, plants are required CO 2 Emissions From Logistics
are reported using the market-based to report under Environment Canada Metric Tons C0
approach. Where renewable electricity is and Climate Change’s Greenhouse Gas 2
purchased, an emission factor of zero is Emissions Reporting Program and Output FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
assumed. Indirect emissions from non- Based Pricing System; both plants are
renewable electricity used at Toyota’s also required to report GHG emissions Emissions from Logistics 741,706 818,862 729,858 670,570 807,388
(Scopes 1 and 3)
U.S. locations are calculated using U.S to the province of Ontario under its
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Environmental Protection Act. Scope: Owned and third-party service parts and vehicle transport (e.g., trucking and rail).
Mobile sources only
Scope 3 emissions for category 1,
purchased goods and services, are being
Scope 1 + 2 GHG Emissions
collected from suppliers and are expected
to be available in the near future. Metric Tons C0 2
FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
Scope 1 434,000 409,000 387,000 445,353
Scope 2 783,000 697,000 627,000 618,729
TOTAL 1,217,000 1,106,000 1,014,000 1,064,082
The U.S., Canada and Mexico have adopted GHG emissions and fuel economy U.S. Fleet CO Data (Annual Grams CO per Mile)
2 2
standards; the regulations in Canada and Mexico are similar to the federal regulations
in the U.S.
The U.S. Fleet CO Data chart shows GHG performance of Toyota’s U.S. vehicle fleet 2016 267
2
under the U.S. EPA GHG program. The annual GHG compliance values account
2017 259
for real-world GHG benefits from off-cycle technologies, such as air conditioning
and aerodynamic improvements, not observed over the official tailpipe CO 2 testing 2018 254
conditions.
2019 247
2020 258
Canada Fleet CO Data (Annual Grams CO per Mile)
2 2
Mexico Fleet CO Data (Annual Grams CO per Kilometer)
2 2
raeY
ledoM
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
raeY
ledoM
205.6
294.5
191.5
294.7
182.9
264.1
165.5
261.3
164.0
214.3
Car Truck
Based on CO emissions data reported to Environment and Climate Change Canada
2
2017 158.4
2018 162.2
2019 161.0
2020 157.0
2021 150.0
raeY
ledoM
2022 Mirai Limited
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
In our operations, the primary concern with non-greenhouse gas air emissions is smog.
Smog is formed as particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, and volatile organic compounds
(VOCs) react with sunlight. Smog has been linked to several health issues and is
particularly prevalent in dense urban areas with heavy traffic, industrial activity and
sunny, warm climates.
Vehicle body painting operations generate most of Toyota’s VOC emissions. Toyota’s
North American manufacturing plants measure grams of VOCs emitted per square
meter of vehicle surface area coated (g/m2). VOC emissions from vehicle body painting
increased 3.4 percent between FY2021 and FY2022 due mainly to an increase in
production related to easing of pandemic-related restrictions.
We expect VOC emissions to continue to decrease as we further improve transfer
efficiency and launch additional water-borne paint systems.
VOC Emissions
Grams per Square Meter of Vehicle Surface Area Coated
FY2019 13.0
FY2020 12.3
FY2021 11.8
FY2022 12.2
sCOV
Air Quality California’s Low Emission Vehicle program
and create a federal vehicle emissions
program that allows automakers to sell the GRI 305-7
same vehicles in all 50 states.
Criteria Pollutant Tailpipe
Toyota’s goal is to maintain flexibility
Emissions
to build vehicles based on customer
preferences. In setting tailpipe emission
Hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides (NOx) and regulations, we believe standards should
carbon monoxide — all byproducts of be performance-based and consider
fuel combustion — are linked to various the interaction with other vehicle rules
air quality issues such as smog formation — such as fuel economy/greenhouse
as well as various health effects. Limiting gas standards — to ensure the total
criteria pollutant emissions from our package of requirements is effective and
vehicle tailpipes help to reduce some of acceptable to the consumer. Fuels must be
the environmental impacts of driving. considered with vehicle technologies as
a holistic system. Reduced sulfur levels in
The U.S. EPA and the state of California
gasoline, required by the federal Tier 3 and
have certification programs to categorize California LEV III programs, are enabling
vehicles in terms of their level of tailpipe
the after-treatment systems being
emissions, and Environment and Climate
designed for compliance.
Change Canada has issued Tier 3
regulations aligned with the final U.S. Toyota annually complies with the state
Tier 3 rule. of California, U.S. and Canadian vehicle
criteria pollutant emissions standards.
While the EPA Tier 3 and California Low
Emission Vehicle III (LEV III) regulations The 2022 “Greenest List”, published by the
have different nomenclature for American Council for an Energy Efficient
categorizing vehicle emissions, the Economy (ACEEE), names the Toyota Prius
bins include the same vehicle emission Prime, Toyota Corolla Hybrid and Toyota
groupings. For the 2021 model year, EPA Camry Hybrid LE as three of the greenest
Tier 3 and California LEV III regulations vehicles available in the U.S. in 2022.
required an auto manufacturer’s fleet ACEEE evaluated more than 1,000 models
average to meet an emission standard for and awards each car with a Green Score
non-methane organic gas with nitrogen based on an environmental damage index
oxides (NMOG + NOx) of 58 mg/mi for (EDX), which reflects the cost to human
passenger cars and light-duty trucks up health from air pollution associated with
to 3,750 pounds, and 65 for other light- vehicle manufacturing and disposal, the
duty trucks. The regulations set declining production and distribution of fuel or
emission standards from 2017 through electricity, and vehicle tailpipes.
2025, when the NMOG + NOx average
for both sets of vehicles will become Natural Resources Canada ranks the most
30 mg/mi. fuel-efficient vehicles each year and three
Toyota models made the list in 2022:
The EPA Tier 3 vehicle standards were Toyota Corolla Hybrid, Toyota Highlander
intended to be harmonized with
Commitment to Water Aqueduct is the Water Risk Atlas, which TMNA addresses water-related impacts in
combines 13 indicators covering aspects of three ways:
as a Shared Resource quantity, quality and reputational risk into a
1 Conserving Water: We continue to work
composite overall risk score. Our analysis is
to make auto manufacturing more efficient
GRI 3-3 based on version 3.0 of the Atlas (released
so that we use less water for every vehicle
GRI 303-1, 303-2 in 2019).
we produce, and we will continue to
explore options for reusing and recycling
Recently, TMNA started moving beyond an Toyota’s North American locations have
water so that we withdraw less from fresh
onsite water management approach to one been mapped, including manufacturing
water sources. See our stories on how
of site and watershed water stewardship. plants, R&D centers, vehicle and parts
the assembly plant in Indiana is saving
Toyota is committed to water stewardship, distribution centers, service training
54.3 million gallons of water annually and
which means using water in a way that centers and offices. The sites were then
Water how a membrane bio reactor helps us
is socially equitable, environmentally ranked based on their overall risk score.
recycle 23 million gallons annually in Baja
sustainable and economically beneficial, According to the Atlas, seven of Toyota‘s
California.
and is achieved through working with North American locations scored in the
Sustainable Development
stakeholders on site- and watershed-based “high” risk level and two in the “extremely
Goal 6 seeks to “ensure actions. high” risk level. These sites are located 2 Protecting Water Resources: Water
quality is a key component of Toyota’s
availability and sustainable in water-stressed areas and are a priority
approach to water stewardship. Some of
management of water and Water is an important issue to Toyota in terms of managing water use and
our sites discharge wastewater, which we
because we use water in our operations. At efficiency. In FY2022, these seven sites
sanitation for all.” By finding monitor and treat to meet local, state and
TMNA, we use a small amount of water for represented 7% of the water Toyota
ways to increase water-use federal regulations and to avoid negatively
drinking water and washrooms, but more withdrew in North America.
efficiency, improve water impacting water bodies.
importantly, the majority of TMNA’s water
quality and protect water- use occurs in manufacturing, primarily
TMNA Sites in a Overall Water 3 Sharing our know-how: We engage in
related ecosystems, we are in the painting process. Before a welded
Water-Stressed Area Risk Ranking outreach activities with communities to
helping to build a more vehicle body can be painted, water sprays scale up progress to the point of creating
are used during a pretreat process that Assembly plant in Baja
sustainable future for society, High positive change. We provide funding
degreases and removes dirt, rinses, and California, Mexico
business and the planet. to nonprofit organizations to help raise
applies an anticorrosion base coat. If the
awareness about the importance of water
Assembly plant in
surface of the vehicle body isn’t clean, Guanajuato, Mexico High conservation, and we fund hands-on
paint defects can occur.
learning programs with schools to teach
Toyota Technical Center in children about water quality and water
TMNA treats certain wastewater streams on- Gardena, California High resource management. See how we’re
site and discharges wastewater to publicly
supporting The Nature Conservancy to
owned treatment works. Water is consumed TLS Long Beach vehicle
restore water flows in the Colorado River
distribution center, High
primarily through evaporative processes California Delta.
during building heating and cooling.
TABC unit plant in Long We are also engaging with suppliers.
High
Limited amounts of water are used for Beach, California Water use in our supply chain far exceeds
irrigation at some sites. TMNA uses drought- the amount we use in our own operations.
resistant and native plants wherever LA Region office, California Extremely High When we launched the updated Green
possible to minimize irrigation needs. Supplier Requirements in April 2022, we
LA Parts Distribution Center, High included a new requirement for suppliers
California
TMNA uses the World Resources Institute to track water withdrawal, discharge and
(WRI) Aqueduct™ Tool to identify water- Toyota Arizona consumption volumes. We also request
And finally, we are asking dealerships approach taken globally by our corporate Water Withdrawal, Only 7% of water withdrawal occurred
participating in our Dealer Environmental parent, Toyota Motor Corporation. in an area of “high” or “extremely high”
Discharge and
Excellence Program to track their water use water stress (based on WRII’s Water Risk
and develop reduction plans. As part of the U.S. Department of Energy’s Consumption Atlas).
Better Building Challenge, TMNA is
In keeping with TMNA’s comprehensive targeting a 20% reduction in water intensity Approximately 94% of total water
approach, we are implementing the at nine U.S. plants by FY2026, from a GRI 303-3, 303-4, 303-5 withdrawal came from municipal sources
International Water Stewardship Standard baseline of FY2014. This is a sub-target of In FY2022, Toyota withdrew 1.68 billion (both fresh and recycled water from
developed by the Alliance for Water the TMNA-wide target of 5% reduction from gallons of water at North American utilities); the remaining withdrawals
Stewardship (AWS). The AWS Standard FY2020 levels. facilities, including manufacturing plants, came from surface water bodies,
offers a credible, globally applicable R&D centers, parts and vehicle distribution groundwater and rainwater.
framework for major water users to In FY2022, our North American facilities centers, service training centers and
understand their own water use and (both production and non-production offices. This is a 10% increase compared Water withdrawal volumes were
impacts, and to work collaboratively and sites) used 973 gallons to produce a Toyota to FY2021, mainly due to increases in compiled primarily from water utility
transparently with others for sustainable or Lexus vehicle. This is higher than the production following pandemic-related invoices. For rainwater, measurements
water management within the wider previous fiscal year, but still 1% less than shutdowns. are taken from the collection units. Water
water catchment context. Implementers we used in FY2020. We continue to seek discharge is either measured by meter or,
follow the steps and guidance in the AWS opportunities for continuous improvement in the case of non-production facilities,
Standard to work towards becoming good even while production levels fluctuate due estimated based on occupancy.
water stewards by improving site water mainly to supply chain disruptions.
performance and contributing to wider
sustainability goals. We are currently Water Use (Gallons)
piloting the AWS Standard at our assembly
FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
plant in Baja California, Mexico, and plan
to roll out to additional sites in the future. Water Intensity
Water Withdrawal 1,766,238,000 1,526,868,000 1,678,110,000
As we better understand the Rio Grande (Gallons of Water Withdrawn per Vehicle
Produced)
Tijuana River Basin, we are gaining a better Water Discharge 1,173,877,000 1,241,390,000 1,158,684,000
983
understanding of the watershed issues 973
of local community water availability as it 951 958 Water Consumption 592,361,000 285,478,000 519,426,000
relates to the watershed’s reliance on the
Scope: All Toyota North America locations, including assembly and unit plants, offices and
Colorado River.
warehouses
Water Target Water Use In Water Stressed Areas (Gallons)
GRI 3-3 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 FY2026 FY2021 FY2022
Baseline Target
Our water target for fiscal years 2022 to Water Withdrawal 124,859,000 117,391,000
2026 is to reduce water use per unit of
Scope: All Toyota North America locations, Water Discharge 93,019,000 75,968,000
vehicle production by 5% from FY2020
including assembly and unit plants, offices
levels. Water Consumption 31,840,000 41,423,000
and warehouses
The target equates to a 1% improvement Scope: All Toyota North America locations, including assembly and unit plants, offices and
per year and is consistent with the warehouses
Water-stressed areas were identified using WRI’s AqueductTM Water Risk Atlas and include
Commitment to Materials Targets and cardboard boxes for shipping parts
between suppliers, distribution centers,
Responsible Production GRI 3-3 plants and dealerships. The highest use of
single-use packaging is for service parts,
GRI 3-3 Plastics so this is where we will be focusing our
efforts going forward.
TMNA strives to use responsible production Our plastics target for fiscal years 2022 to
practices involving environmentally sound 2026 is to reduce single-use plastics at on- TMNA is a member of Suppliers
management of 1) goods provided by site food services by 75%, from a calendar Partnership for the Environment (SP) and
suppliers (such as steel, aluminum, plastic year 2019 baseline. participates in the Materials Efficiency
parts and other raw materials) and 2) waste Work Group. The Materials Efficiency
generated by our activities. Plastic is not biodegradable, can be Work Group created a new Sustainable
Materials
difficult to recycle, and is well known for Packaging sub-group, co-chaired by
Our plants, warehouses and R&D causing water and ocean pollution. That’s TMNA and Magna, to further SP’s efforts to
sites across North America have why we are working on reducing plastics promote the design and use of sustainable
Sustainable Development mature governance organizations and wherever we can. This target covers packaging. This group created a resource
Goal 12 seeks to “ensure management systems in place to help single-use plastics used in our cafeterias; with information on the viable recyclability
sustainable consumption ensure chemicals and wastes are handled see the packaging target below for our of 35 different packaging material types
and production patterns.” safely and in compliance with applicable target to reduce plastic and other types of commonly used in the automotive
federal, state, provincial and local packaging. industry.
By finding ways to conserve
regulations. We are also committed to
natural resources, reduce continuous improvement, which means Due to COVID-related delays in employees
waste and sustainable we look for ways to reduce the use of coming back to the office, we did not make
manage material flow, substances of concern, eliminate waste at much progress on this target last year.
we are helping to create the source, and reuse and recycle. However, during FY2023, we are working Packaging Material Procured
on replacing several single-use items with
by Weight
a circular economy that
TMNA’s Environmental Sustainability, compostable and reusable items and (Metric Tons)
benefits people and the
Materials Engineering, and Procurement expect to see reductions soon.
11,989
planet. departments work together with suppliers
9,751
to help reduce the use of packaging Packaging 9,471
materials, identify sustainable materials for
use in vehicle parts, manage substances Our packaging target for fiscal years
of concern, and reduce, reuse and recycle 2022 to 2026 is to reduce procurement of
waste. single-use packaging materials by 25%
from FY2018 levels.
FY2018 FY2022 FY2026
We developed this target to help us reduce Baseline Target
waste and lessen the environmental
19% reduction
impacts of shipping parts and materials. Scope: This target covers expendable
IN SINGLE-USE PACKAGING, FY2018-FY2022 Based on our estimates, we have reduced and export boxes and pallets used in
(BY WEIGHT) the use of single-use packaging materials manufacturing, plus cardboard, pallets,
by approximately 19% compared to the paper and soft plastics used in service parts
FY2018 baseline. One way we reduce distribution.
packaging is by using approximately
60,000 returnable packaging modules
Battery Recycling Sustainable Materials The mining of rare earth metals can a collaborative effort between TMNA and
have negative environmental and social several other automakers, a common
Our hybrid vehicle battery recycling consequences. Our parent company, guidance document called Global
GRI 301-2
target for fiscal years 2022 to 2026 is to Toyota Motor Corporation, has developed Product Chemical Compliance Process
implement a closed-loop battery recycling We strive to increase our use of a magnet for use in electric vehicle motors Management was published through the
program to support our new battery sustainable materials, which include that replaces up to 50% of the neodymium, Suppliers Partnership for the Environment.
manufacturing plant in North Carolina. reclaimed materials and materials with a rare earth metal, with more abundant This guidance document complements
and less costly lanthanum and cerium. our annual questionnaire and is just one
recycled and/or renewable content.
Toyota expects the magnets to be used of many initiatives TMNA is carrying out as
GRI 301-3 Using sustainable materials means using
in electric vehicles in the first half of the part of a five-year strategy to enhance the
materials in the most productive way, with
In 2021, Toyota announced its newest 2020s. chemical management capabilities of the
emphasis on using less as well as reducing
plant, Toyota Battery Manufacturing North American supply chain.
toxic chemicals and environmental
North Carolina (TBMNC), with an initial As members of SP, we participate in
impacts across the whole life cycle.
investment of $1.29 billion for battery the Materials Efficiency Work Group. In Waste
production. In 2022, Toyota announced Using sustainable materials conserves collaboration with the Automotive Industry
an additional investment of $2.5 billion in natural resources and contributes to Action Group (AIAG), work group members
TBMNC, bringing the total to $3.8 billion. a circular economy. According to the developed two new guidance documents: GRI 306-1, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4, 306-5
Scheduled to begin production in 2025, Alliance for Automotive Innovation, Measuring Renewable Content of Total waste generated by TMNA increased
the facility will produce batteries for approximately 86% of an end-of-life Automotive Products and Measuring 14% in 2021 compared to 2020, mainly
hybrid electric vehicles and battery vehicle’s material content is recycled, Recycled Content of Automotive Products. due to increases in production following
electric vehicles. reused or used for energy recovery. Our These documents are designed to outline pandemic-related shutdowns. TMNA
a common industry-supported definition
sustainable materials efforts seek to create reused, recycled or recovered 93% of all
We are working with our partners to and approach for measuring renewable
closed loops within our industry, and even waste in 2021. Only 1.6% of waste was sent
create a sustainable, closed-loop and recycled content in vehicles.
within our own plants, processes and to landfills for disposal, and 5.4% was
battery ecosystem at TBMNC. Toyota
vehicles. incinerated, either with or without energy
and Redwood Materials (Redwood) are Chemical Management
recovery.
exploring a series of end-of-life battery We continue to develop and
solutions. Initially, this collaboration commercialize technologies that enable GRI 3-3 By weight, steel is the largest raw material
is expected to focus on the collection, the use of sustainable materials with used to make Toyota and Lexus vehicles.
testing and recycling of Toyota hybrid reduced environmental impacts in a range Chemicals are utilized every day to It is also the largest waste stream,
electric vehicle batteries. The companies of vehicle components. For example, produce parts and materials in Toyota and accounting for 76% of all waste generated
will then look to expand into other areas we use bio-based plastics — plastics Lexus vehicles. Proper management of in 2021. We recycle 100% of the scrap steel
such as battery health screening and derived either wholly or in part from plant these chemicals is important in reducing waste generated.
data management, remanufacturing and materials —in the seat cushions in Toyota their environmental impacts throughout
battery material supply throughout North Prius, Corolla and RAV4, and in Lexus RX the vehicle life cycle. We continue to prioritize reduce, reuse
America. Together, Toyota and Redwood 350; and we use post-industrial garment and recycling over disposal, both to
are striving to seamlessly incorporate clippings made of cotton and synthetic It’s important for Toyota to understand reduce our impact on the environment and
battery recycling through domestic battery fibers in door panel insulation, floor the chemical content of the parts we to optimize efficiency and reduce cost in
materials manufacturing into Toyota’s silencers and floor mats. receive from our suppliers. TMNA’s our operations. We partner with our waste
battery production strategy. Chemical Management Office (CMO) aims vendors, universities and others to help us
We also look for alternatives to rare earth to track and visualize the development find innovative ways to reduce, reuse or
See our story on How We Recycle Hybrid metals, which are necessary components and growth of our suppliers’ chemical recycle our waste streams. See our stories,
Vehicle Batteries for more information on in hundreds of products across a wide management systems, in part, through Solving for the Solvent and Towards a
what happens to hybrid vehicles at end range of applications, especially high-tech the implementation of an annual chemical Circular Economy, for examples of how we
of life. consumer products like electric vehicles. management supplier questionnaire. In reduce, reuse and recycle.
We also engage with suppliers on waste
Waste Diverted from Disposal (CY2021)
reduction. In the most recent edition of our
Green Supplier Requirements, we request 93% of all waste Pounds
all suppliers to decrease the amount of
waste generated and increase the amount WAS RECYCLED, REUSED OR Recycled, Reused, Recovered
of waste recycled. RECOVERED IN 2021
Regulated* Waste 7,299,419
Waste data is collected on a calendar
Non-regulated Waste 750,587,344
year basis. At North American
manufacturing plants, distribution centers TOTAL WASTE DIVERTED 757,886,763
and warehouses, third-party waste
management and recycling vendors Scope: Toyota’s North American headquarters, manufacturing, R&D, sales and logistics
provide waste data based on weight for sites in the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico. Also includes data from manufacturing in Mexico.
most waste streams. At sales offices, we Data from non-manufacturing sites in Mexico will be included in future years. Data excludes
assumed weights based on an estimated construction and demolition waste from new construction and expansion projects. Certain
average waste per person. waste streams are diverted onsite through reuse; however, we do not track this data.
*Regulated waste includes hazardous, universal and special wastes regulated at the federal,
state, provincial or local level. Non-regulated waste is all other waste.
Total Waste Generated (CY2021)
Pounds Waste Disposed (CY2021)
Pounds
2019 2020 2021
Regulated* Waste 16,832,174 14,010,112 18,412,607 Landfill Incineration
Non-regulated Waste 728,983,646 699,832,363 797,302,944 Regulated* Waste 888 11,112,300
Scrap Steel Recycled 599,397,719 594,061,626 616,091,071 Non-regulated Waste 12,870,915 33,844,687
Compost 998,672 721,600 2,940,434 TOTAL 12,871,803 44,956,987
All other waste streams 128,587,255 105,049,137 178,271,438 TOTAL WASTE DISPOSED 57,828,790
TOTAL WASTE GENERATED 745,815,820 713,842,476 815,715,552 Scope: Toyota’s North American headquarters, manufacturing, R&D, sales and logistics
sites in the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico. Also includes data from manufacturing in Mexico.
Scope: Toyota’s North American headquarters, manufacturing, R&D, sales and logistics Data from non-manufacturing sites in Mexico will be included in future years. Data excludes
sites in the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico. Also includes data from manufacturing in Mexico. construction and demolition waste from new construction and expansion projects.
Data from non-manufacturing sites in Mexico will be included in future years. Data excludes
construction and demolition waste from new construction and expansion projects. Note: 100% of waste disposed was disposed offsite.
*Regulated waste includes hazardous, universal and special wastes regulated at the federal, *Regulated waste includes hazardous, universal and special wastes regulated at the federal,
state, provincial or local level. Non-regulated waste is all other waste. state, provincial or local level. Non-regulated waste is all other waste.
Commitment to We also engage with suppliers. In the
Acres of Pollinator
most recent edition of our Green Supplier
Harmony With Nature Requirements, we request all suppliers Habitat Supported
to support the development of wildlife
26,000
GRI 3-3 corridors and consider identifying
biodiversity risks in their supply chains.
Human activity is putting pressure on We are a member of SP, where we co-led
biodiversity and accelerating biodiversity the launch of the SP Pollinator Project
loss. This on its own is a global challenge, Challenge (see our story on The Flight of
but biodiversity is also inextricably linked the Monarch for more information).
to climate change – we can’t solve the 1,922
climate crisis without recognizing the
Biodiversity Biodiversity Target
significant role nature plays in capturing
FY2022 FY2026
and storing CO from the atmosphere Baseline Target
2 GRI 304-2
through ecosystem services, on land and in
Sustainable Development the oceans.
Our biodiversity target for fiscal years 2022
Goal 15 seeks to halt
to 2026 is to support the development of
biodiversity loss and restore Business has a role to play at least 26,000 acres of pollinator habitat
in reversing nature loss
ecosystems. By finding in North America.
and protecting
ways to reverse nature loss
biodiversity. That’s why we
The reason TMNA chose to support 26,000
and protect species, we are at TMNA joined more than We can’t solve the climate
acres of pollinator habitat is because the
helping future generations 1,000 companies in land area is equal to the 26,000 acres that crisis without recognizing the
continue to enjoy the signing up to Business for Nature’s Call to
the company’s facilities currently occupy significant role nature plays
natural wonders of our Action, calling on governments to adopt across North America. Constructing and
ambitious policies to reverse nature loss in in capturing and storing CO
world. operating manufacturing plants can lead 2
this decade. to negative impacts on biodiversity, such from the atmosphere through
as habitat conversion and species loss. We ecosystem services, on land
Across North America, we are
aim to counter these impacts by partnering
focusing on: and in the oceans.
with local stakeholders on conservation
projects, when needed, and by creating
• No net loss of biodiversity
and restoring habitats on our sites.
• Respect for legally designated protected
areas
In FY2022, 1,547 acres of pollinator habitat
• Avoidance of negative impacts on
were developed through collaboration with
threatened or protected species
Pollinator Partnership (P2). Additionally,
Toyota has developed 375 acres of
Our focused approach to this involves
pollinator habitat on its own lands, mostly
working with stakeholders, including
through our partnership with Wildlife
employees, communities and nonprofit
Habitat Council® (WHC). This brings the
organizations, on biodiversity projects on
total number of acres to 1,922. For more
our sites and in our communities.
information, see our story on Expanding
Pollinator Habitat.
Restoring Habitat
Wildlife Habitat Council Conservation Certifications
Certifications as of August 2022
GRI 304-1, 304-3
Toyota Site Name Certification Level
TMNA partners with Wildlife Habitat Council® (WHC) on conservation programs at sites
in North America. Conservation programs at 14 of our sites, including nine assembly
and engine plants, have achieved Conservation Certification, which is WHC’s voluntary Toyota Motor Manufacturing, Texas Gold
certification standard designed for broad-based biodiversity enhancement and
conservation education activities on corporate landholdings. Toyota Motor Manufacturing, West Virginia Gold
For more on our work with WHC, see our story on the Indicator Species Project.
Toyota Motor Manufacturing, Kentucky Gold
Toyota Motor Manufacturing Canada, Cambridge Gold
Toyota Motor Manufacturing Canada, Woodstock Silver
Toyota Motor Manufacturing, Alabama Silver
Toyota Motor Manufacturing, Mississippi Silver
Toyota Technical Center, Ann Arbor, Michigan Certified
Toyota Technical Center, York Township, Michigan Certified
Toyota Motor Manufacturing, Indiana Certified
Toyota Motor Manufacturing, Tennessee Certified
TMNA Headquarters in Plano, Texas Certified
Toyota Motor Manufacturing, Kentucky Production and Engineering Manufacturing Center, Kentucky Certified
Toyota Logistics Services in Portland, Oregon Certified
Toyota Sites in or Adjacent to a Protected Area, Critical Habitat or Biodiversity Hotspot
Includes Toyota majority-owned sites in operation as of August 2022
As part of our engagement with WHC,
Protected Area, Critical Habitat and/or
Site Name Location Type of Operation TMNA identifies operational sites that
Biodiversity Hotspot
are in or near a protected area, critical
habitat or biodiversity hotspot.7 The sites
TMMBC Tijuana, Baja California (Mexico) Manufacturing Hotspot: California Floristic Province; near a protected area or critical habitat
Protected area: Wildlife Preserve
are all actively working on conservation
initiatives. In 2021, we initiated a grant
Protected Area: Vansittart Woods program with NEEF in the California
TMMC Woodstock, Ontario (Canada) Manufacturing
wetlands Floristic Province, the only biodiversity
hotspot identified in North America (see
TABC Long Beach, California Manufacturing Hotspot: California Floristic Province Biodiversity Conservation Grants for
information on the impacts of this grant
Gardena Technical Center Gardena, California R&D Hotspot: California Floristic Province program).
LA Parts Distribution Center Los Angeles, California Parts logistics Hotspot: California Floristic Province
TLS Long Beach Port of Long Beach, California Vehicle logistics Hotspot: California Floristic Province
San Ramon Regional Office and
San Ramon, California Parts logistics Hotspot: California Floristic Province
Parts Distribution Center
North American Parts Center
Ontario, California Parts logistics Hotspot: California Floristic Province
California
TLS Portland Port of Portland, Oregon Vehicle logistics Critical Habitat for Soho Salmon
TAPG Phoenix, Arizona Proving ground Critical Habitat for Yellow-billed Cuckoo
7A Protected Area is defined as a geographic area that is designated, regulated or managed to achieve specific conservation objectives. (GRI Standards Glossary 2016)
Critical Habitat is a term defined and used in the U.S. Endangered Species Act. It is a specific geographic area(s) containing physical or biological features that are essential for the conservation of a threatened or endangered species and that may require special management and protection. Critical
habitat may include an unoccupied area(s) if it is determined to be essential for the conservation of the species.
A Biodiversity Hotspot is defined as an area that meets two criteria: It must have at least 1,500 vascular plants as endemics — which is to say, it must have a high percentage of plant life found nowhere else on the planet; and it must have 30 percent or less of its original natural vegetation. Biodiversity
Protecting Species
Endangered, Threatened or Protected Species On or Near Toyota Sites
Includes Toyota-owned sites in operation as of August 2022
GRI 304-4
WIth the help of WHC, we assess sites for Toyota Site Endangered, Threatened, Law/Regulation Activities
or Protected Species
the presence of endangered or threatened
species. Sites with or near protected
species are listed in the table, along with On December 15, 2020, the U.S. Fish
and Wildlife Service announced that
their activities to support those species.
listing the monarch as endangered
or threatened under the Endangered
See our story on The Flight of the Monarch Species Act is warranted, but precluded
All TMNA sites in North America Monarch butterfly The Flight of the Monarchs
for information on how we support the by higher priority listing actions. The
migratory monarch butterfly, which was monarch is now a candidate under the
Endangered Species Act and its status
added to the IUCN Red List in July 2022
will be reviewed annually until a listing
as an endangered species. IUCN - the decision is made.
International Union for Conservation
of Nature – is a Switzerland-based
Ceanothus verrucosus
conservation organization that monitors (a medicinal shrub)
the status of wildlife worldwide. According
Crotalus ruber
to the IUCN, populations of migratory (a native rattlesnake)
monarchs have declined between 22 and Linx rufus (bobcat) Protected by Mexico’s Ministry of These species are found on 143 acres of
72% over the past 10 years because of Manufacturing plant in Tijuana, Environment and Natural Resources
Baja California (Mexico) Lepus californicus (SEMARNAT) under NOM–059– the site’s property that are protected as
pesticides and herbicides, deforestation (black–tailed jackrabbit) SEMARNAT–2010 a wildlife preserve.
for logging, urban development and
Ferocactus gracilis
agricultural expansion. Climate change— (fire barrel cactus)
in the form of drought, wildfire and
Cylindropuntia californica
extreme temperatures—is also threatening (California cholla)
milkweed, the only plant monarch larvae
feed on. Toyota has pollinator gardens Manufacturing plants in Cambridge Protected by the Migratory Birds Installed 71 bird boxes at Toyota's
Tree Swallow assembly plants in Cambridge and
spanning over 300 acres at 17 sites across and Woodstock, Ontario (Canada) Convention Act
Woodstock, Ontario.
North America that support migratory
monarchs and other pollinator species. Cave shrimp are found in an area of
Protected by the U.S. Endangered
Engine plant in Huntsville, Alabama Alabama cave shrimp the site that is not disturbed by site
Species Act
operations or activities.
Solidago shortii
Assembly and unit plant in (short’s goldenrod) Protected by the U.S. Endangered Planted Short’s Goldenrod along a one–
Georgetown, Kentucky Myotis sodalist Species Act mile nature trail onsite
(Indiana bat)
Salmon Safe certified; site maintains
a bioswale and storm water pollution
Vehicle logistics site at the Port of Protected by the U.S. Endangered
Coho Salmon prevention program; team members
Portland, Oregon Species Act
participate in annual cleanup of the
Willamette River
CARBON
CO EMISSIONS Unit FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
2
Scope 1 emissions MT CO 409,000 387,000 445,353
2
Scope 2 emissions (market-based) MT CO 697,000 627,000 618,729
2
Total Scope 1+2 emissions MT CO 1,106,000 1,014,000 1,064,082
2
GHG intensity 1 MT CO/ vehicle 0.62 0.63 0.62
2
Scope 3, Use of Sold Product 2 MT CO 86,870,000 94,800,000 Not available
2
Scope 3, Downstream Transportation and Distribution (third-party MT CO Not reported Not reported 800,344
2
U.S. service parts and vehicle transport only)
Scope 3, Dealerships MT CO Not measured Not measured 2,153,455
2
FLEET CO PER MILE Unit MY2020 MY2021 MY2022
2
U.S. Fleet GHG Data 3 Grams CO/ mile 258.0 Not available Not available
2
Canada Fleet GHG Data - car Grams CO/ mile 165.5 164.0 Not available
2
Canada Fleet GHG Data - truck Grams CO/ mile 261.3 214.3 Not available
2
Mexico Fleet GHG Data Grams CO/ kilometer 157 150 Not available
2
ELECTRIFIED VEHICLE SALES Unit CY2020 CY2021 CY2022
Toyota and Lexus models with an electrified option (U.S.) % Not measured Not measured 52
Toyota and Lexus Vehicle Sales that are electrified (U.S.) % 16 25 Not available
Total number of electrified vehicles sold – U.S.4 # 337,036 583,697 Not available
BEVs sold – U.S.5 # 0 0 Not available
Hybrids sold – U.S. # 318,639 528,319 Not available
Plug-in Hybrids sold – U.S. # 17,898 52,749 Not available
Fuel cell hybrids sold – U.S. # 499 2,629 Not available
Percent of Toyota and Lexus Vehicle Sales that are electrified (Canada) % 18.5 27.7 Not available
Total number of electrified vehicles sold – Canada6 # 35,504 62,460 Not available
BEVs sold – Canada # 0 0 Not available
Hybrids sold – Canada # 29,901 52,959 Not available
Plug-in Hybrids sold – Canada # 5,582 9,373 Not available
Fuel-cell hybrids sold – Canada # 21 128 Not available
ENERGY Unit FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
Total energy consumption MWh 3,700,858 3,609,000 3,892,335
Non-renewable electricity MWh 1,670,000 1,535,000 1,586,998
Renewable electricity MWh 60,000 62,000 70,724
Natural gas MWh 2,050,000 1,938,000 2,166,553
Fuels used in mobile sources MWh 78,700 74,000 68,060
Energy intensity 7 MWh/vehicle 2.11 2.23 2.26
Fleet fuel economy – U.S.8 Miles per gallon of gasoline 27.0 Not available Not available
WATER Unit FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
Water withdrawal Gallons 1,766,238,000 1,526,868,000 1,652,147,000
Portion withdrawn in water-stressed areas9 % 6 8 7
Water withdrawn from municipal sources % 95.2 96.2 94.1
Water withdrawn from surface water10 % 4.4 3.5 2.9
Groundwater11 % 0.4 0.3 3.0
Water discharge Gallons 1,171,907,000 1,238,972,000 1,158,684,000
Portion discharged in water-stressed areas % 4 7 7
Water consumption Gallons 594,331,000 287,896,000 493,462,000
Portion consumed in water-stressed areas % 12 11 8
Water withdrawn per vehicle produced Gallons/ vehicle 983 951 958
WASTE Unit CY2020 CY2021 CY2022
Percent of total waste reused, recycled or recovered12 % 93.2 92.9 Not available
Total waste generated Pounds 713,842,476 815,715,552 Not available
Regulated Waste Pounds 14,010,112 18,412,607 Not available
Non-regulated Waste Pounds 699,832,363 797,302,944 Not available
Scrap steel recycled Pounds 594,061,626 616,091,071 Not available
Compost Pounds 721,600 2,940,434 Not available
All other waste streams Pounds 105,049,137 178,271,438 Not available
Regulated waste diverted from disposal13 Pounds 4,844,115 7,299,419 Not available
Non-regulated waste diverted from disposal Pounds 660,495,382 750,587,344 Not available
Regulated waste landfilled Pounds 0 888 Not available
Regulated waste incinerated14 Pounds 9,165,997 11,112,300 Not available
Non-regulated waste landfilled Pounds 10,764,547 12,870,915 Not available
Non-regulated waste incinerated Pounds 28,572,434 33,844,687 Not available
BIODIVERSITY Unit FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
Acres of pollinator habitat supported15 Acres Not measured Not measured 1,922
Number of sites with programs with Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) # of sites certified by WHC 13 15 14
Conservation Certification
AIR QUALITY Unit FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
VOC emissions16 Grams/square meter of 12.3 11.8 12.2
surface area coated
COMPLIANCE Unit FY2020 FY202117 FY202218
Violations that resulted in air or water pollution # 0 0 0
8 Fuel economy as reported in the 2021 EPA Automotive Trends Report, table 2.3, page 13 15 Includes both on- and off-site habitats
9 Water-stressed areas are defined according to the Water Risk Atlas in WRI’s Aqueduct Tool as areas with either “high” or “extremely high” 16 Scope = North American manufacturing plants
overall risk. 17 In January 2021, Toyota paid a civil penalty of $180 million to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to a Consent Decree to
10 Includes collected rainwater resolve investigations stemming from a self-reported process gap in fulfilling certain emissions defect information reporting requirements
GRI Content Index
Statement of Use TMNA has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022 with reference to the GRI Standards.
GRI 1 used GRI 1: Foundation 2021
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
GRI 2: General
2-1 Organizational details About This Report
Disclosures 2021
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s Toyota Motor North America, Inc. (TMNA)
sustainability reporting Toyota Canada Inc. (TCI)
Toyota’s majority-owned North American manufacturing plants
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point About This Report
2-4 Restatements of information TMNA has restated water data for FY2020 and FY2021 to fill in minor gaps in reporting from a few sites.
2-5 External assurance See the Toyota Sustainability Data Book, pages 44-45, for the Verification Statement prepared for Toyota Motor Corp.
TMNA and TCI do not have North American data separately assured.
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business TMNA distributes and markets passenger cars and trucks for sale at Toyota and Lexus dealerships in the U.S. TMNA
relationships manufactures passenger cars and trucks and engines at 13 plants in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. TCI distributes and
markets passenger cars and trucks for sale at Toyota and Lexus dealerships in Canada. TMNA reported U.S. sales in 2021
of over 2.3 million vehicles. TCI reported Canadian sales in 2021 of over 225,000 vehicles. There are more than 1,900
Toyota and Lexus dealerships in the U.S., Canada and Mexico.
2-7 Employees Over 46,000 team members in the U.S., Canada and Mexico
2-9 Governance structure and composition Environmental Sustainability Governance
2-22 Statement on sustainable development Dear Reader
strategy Goals and Targets
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations See Compliance for information on environmental compliance in North America.
Environmental Metrics Table – Compliance
2-28 Membership associations Stakeholder Engagement
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement
GRI 3: Material Topics 3-1 Process to determine material topics See the Toyota Sustainability Data Book, page 5, for a description of TMC’s process for determining materiality for the
2021 global entity.
3-2 List of material topics Material environmental topics are Carbon, Water, Materials and Biodiversity.
3-3 Management of material topics Goals and Targets
Commitment to Carbon Neutrality
Commitment to Water as a Shared Resource
Commitment to Responsible Production
Chemical Management
Commitment to Harmony With Nature
GRI Content Index
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-2 Recycled input materials used Sustainable Materials
301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging Battery Recycling
materials How We Recycle Hybrid Vehicle Batteries
GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental Metrics Table – Energy
302-3 Energy intensity Environmental Metrics Table – Energy
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of Environmental Metrics Table – Vehicle Fuel Efficiency
products and services
GRI 303: Water and 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Commitment to Water as a Shared Resource
Effluents 2018
303-2 Management of water discharge- Commitment to Water as a Shared Resource
related impacts
303-3 Water withdrawal Water Withdrawal, Discharge and Consumption
Environmental Metrics Table - Water
303-4 Water discharge Water Withdrawal, Discharge and Consumption
Environmental Metrics Table – Water
303-5 Water consumption Water Withdrawal, Discharge and Consumption
Environmental Metrics Table – Water
GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed Restoring Habitat
in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high
biodiversity value outside protected areas
304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and Biodiversity Target
services on biodiversity Indicator Species Project
304-3 Habitats protected or restored Restoring Habitat
Expanding Pollinator Habitat
304-4 IUCN Red List species and national Protecting Species
conservation list species with habitats in areas The Flight of the Monarch
affected by operations
GRI Content Index
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions GHG Emissions Data
Environmental Metrics Table – CO Emissions
2
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions GHG Emissions Data
Environmental Metrics Table – CO Emissions
2
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environmental Metric Table - CO Emissions
2
305-4 GHG emissions intensity GHG Emissions Data
Environmental Metrics Table – CO Emissions
2
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions GHG Emissions Data
Toyota Port Facility Nears Carbon Neutrality
On Our Way to 100% Renewable Electricity
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), Air Quality
and other significant air emissions
GRI 306: Waste 2020 306-1 Waste generation and significant Waste
waste-related impacts Towards a Circular Economy
306-2 Management of significant waste-related Waste
impacts Towards a Circular Economy
306-3 Waste generated Waste
Environmental Metrics Table – Waste
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Waste
Environmental Metrics Table – Waste
306-5 Waste directed to disposal Waste
Environmental Metrics Table – Waste
GRI 308: Supplier 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the The primary negative impact in our supply chain is CO emissions that contribute to climate change. See Life Cycle
2
Environmental supply chain and actions taken for our supplier CO target and Green Supplier Requirements for information on how we are collecting information
Assessment 2016 2
from suppliers.
GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with local community Examples of local community engagement include:
Communities 2016 engagement, impact assessments, and Helping Restore Water Flows in the Colorado River Delta
development programs
Community Recycling Days
Biodiversity Conservation Grants