Sustainability Report
CONTENTS FOCUS TOPICS
1
DECARBONIZATION
36 Decarbonization
56 EU Taxonomy
5 FO REWORD
2
CIRCULAR ECONOMY
7 ABOUT THIS REPORT
68 Circular Economy
10 SUSTAINABILITY IN THE
GROUP’S DNA 3
P EOPLE IN THE TRANSFORMATION
11 Corporate Governance
75 People in the Transformation
14 NEW AUTO Group Strategy
18 ESG Performance Management 4
and Materiality Analysis D IVERSITY
20 Sustainability Management 89 Diversity
22 Sustainability Impact of
New Mobility Options 5
INTEGRITY
24 Stakeholder Management
94 Integrity
26 Environmental Compliance
Management
6
33 Risk Management SUPPLY CHAIN AND HUMAN RIGHTS
35 Corporate Citizenship 104 Supply Chain and Human Rights
A detailed description of the sustainability activities of the Volkswagen Group’s brands 114 APPENDIX
and regions is available at:
www.volkswagenag.com > Sustainability > 115 I ndependent Auditor’s Limited
Reporting & ESG Performance Assurance Report
NAVIGATION 118 Contact Information
References to chapters in the Sustainability Report
References to websites
References to the Annual Report
STNETNOC
FO
ELBAT
ARE PART OF THE NEW AUTO GROUP STRATEGY
VOLUME PREMIUM SPORT & LUXURY
TTEECCHH PPLLAATTFFOORRMMSS TTEECCHH IINNIITTIIAATTIIVVEESS
MECHATRONICS
SOFTWARE
BATTERY & CHARGING
MOBILITY SOLUTIONS
BBAASSEE IINNIITTIIAATTIIVVEESS
06 | ESG, Decarbonization and Integrity
PEOPLE IN THE
DECARBONIZATION CIRCULAR ECONOMY
TRANSFORMATION
SUSTAINABILITY IN THE
GROUP’S DNA
DIVERSITY INTEGRITY SUPPLY CHAIN AND
HUMAN RIGHTS
EESSGG PPEERRFFOORRMMAANNCCEE
The aim is to improve performance in the capital market’s ESG ratings and rankings so
as to increase the ability to invest and optimize the cost of capital.
As we transition from automotive manufacturer to mobility group, we are resetting our priorities with the NEW AUTO Group strategy
and positioning ourselves for the future. We are keeping our aim of being a world-leading provider of sustainable mobility firmly in
our sights and making the Group more focused, efficient, innovative, customer-oriented and sustainable, as well as systematically
gearing it toward profitable growth.
The NEW AUTO Group strategy defines the six key focus issues shown above for the area of sustainability and ESG in Group initiative 6.
This Sustainability Report including nonfinancial report is structured in accordance with these.
In addition, the Sustainability in the Group’s DNA chapter provides a definition of sustainability for the Group and an insight into topics
such as risk management, environmental management, stakeholder management and corporate citizenship.
DECARBONIZATION
+26% BEVs
CIRCULAR ECONOMY
572,100 all-electric
633,881 vehicles delivered to
customers worldwide.
metric tons
1.5 °C
of CO₂ saved through
the Aluminum
Closed Loop as goal
process since 2017.
Reconditioning a SBTi confirms tightened
gearbox reduces climate targets in
CO₂ emissions production.
54%
by
and reduces the primary
energy requirement by 52%
compared with the
new part. PEOPLE IN THE
TRANSFORMATION
Training costs
in the
Volkswagen Group:
DIVERSITY
€398.6 m
12.8 m
Proportion of women
in management
training hours
worldwide
in the
and internationality
Volkswagen Group.
of top management
increased.
94%
of managers
have taken part in
the Diversity
Wins@Volkswagen
program.
INTEGRITY
SUPPLY CHAIN AND
HUMAN RIGHTS The T4I program
has been rolled out
784
in
controlled companies
to date.
Development and
implementation of
a new management
approach for
responsible supply
chains.
1,517
> 2,900
inquiries were processed
at the compliance
suppliers were
information point.
trained on
sustainability.
FOREWORD
Oliver Blume, Daniela Cavallo,
Chairman of the Board of Management of Volkswagen AG Chairwoman of the General and Group Works Council of Volkswagen AG
Dear stakeholders and colleagues, hours of additional green electricity by 2025. This should even better
cover the electricity needs of the electric vehicles brought to market
Leaving a better world for future generations is, in our eyes, the and mean a net carbon-neutral use phase can be achieved for the
greatest challenge of our times. Sustainability is not a fad. It’s firmly electric fleet. It’s clear that Volkswagen is committed to the electric
embedded at Volkswagen as one of five principles of corporate drive for decarbonization – for cars, trucks and buses.
governance. We think of sustainability holistically: It’s about the
environment – including climate protection – and about our social We’re delighted that the renowned Science Based Targets initiative
responsibility, the transformation of the workforce and the way last year honored our more stringent CO2 targets in production. By
we run our company. 2030, we want to reduce our passenger cars and light commercial
vehicles’ production-related CO2 emissions by 50% – instead of our
In the Group, we have set ourselves the long-term goal of becoming previous target of 30%. The Science Based Targets initiative has
net carbon neutral by no later than 2050 – this includes our supply confirmed to us that this means our Group meets the requirements
chains, plants and business divisions and our customers’ use of the for the 1.5 °C goal for the production phase.
vehicles. The biggest contribution to reducing our emissions has
been made by electric mobility. And its share in our sales is rising: In battery production too, we’re mindful of sustainability. We laid
In 2022, almost 7% of all the vehicles we delivered globally were the foundation for our own first battery cell factory at the Salzgitter
all-electric. At 572,000 units, we sold a good 26% more e-cars in total site in 2022. Five more factories in Europe will follow by the end of
than in the previous year. Our attractive e-models, including the the decade in order to cover the rising demand for electric cars. Each
Volkswagen ID. Buzz, the ID.5 and the Audi RS e-tron GT, have been factory will be run entirely on renewable energy and will be de-
impressing customers since their launch. For this year, we’re aiming signed for future closed loop recycling – with the aim of recycling
for 11% of our sales to be electric vehicles, and we want to increase as much material as possible and keeping our own raw materials
this to 20% by 2025. loop as closed as possible.
The Volkswagen Group is also the first automotive manufacturer to Our first battery cell manufacturing facility shows that the focus
directly support the expansion of renewable energy on an industrial on e-mobility and software development is going to change work.
scale. The Group brands have already supported the construction of Volkswagen wants to make this transition in an employee-friendly
wind farms in Germany, Sweden and Finland in 2022. It is planned and socially acceptable way.
that all the projects together will generate around seven terawatt
DROWEROF
In 2022, we continued to anchor sustainability in our core business. We are in communication with our suppliers around the world in
We were able to use our social power at the start of the year when order to achieve environmental and social improvements in supply
many people were experiencing immeasurable suffering as a result chains. We want to act as a role model in the design of circular, cli-
of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. We provided help with donations of mate-neutral and fair supply chains. In order to identify particularly
goods, financial support and the use of our vehicles. We’re proud of high risks in the chains, we introduced the human rights focus system
our employees in Germany, who donated more than €2 million for in 2022. It identifies and addresses particularly high risks in the area
emergency aid. The big Volkswagen family shows solidarity and of human rights and the environment. Our newly appointed human
holds together in times of crisis. rights officer will independently monitor whether human rights
due diligence requirements are being met.
Not only does the transformation to e-mobility underline the need
to safeguard jobs, so do other challenges from the past year, includ- As part of the 10-point plan, which defines the Group’s most im-
ing the aftereffects of the Covid-19 pandemic, the impact of the war portant action areas, we are going to anchor sustainability even
in Ukraine, the supply-chain bottleneck and striking increases in more strongly in daily business in 2023. We are now going to go a
the prices of raw materials and issues with their availability. This step further and break down our ambitious ESG targets into brands
makes it all the more crucial that job security, which we consider and business divisions. It’s about the brands and sites in the Group
one of the most important action areas for our Group, has been living up to their responsibility as a whole. In the end, there will be
planned in advance until 2029. This gives us a decisive competitive uniform ESG profiles for all brands. This is important because
edge compared with other companies looking for new employees. doing business sustainably is becoming increasingly important –
This security plays a major role for our future colleagues when they including for our investors.
are choosing where to work and increases our attractiveness as an
employer. The codetermination tools, which were set up at an early Sustainability is also firmly anchored in our strategy in 2023. We
stage, offer new talent attractive future prospects and ensure a are going to continue to advance the key topics of decarbonization
high level of internationalization in top management, because of transportation and production, the transformation of the work-
codetermination is an important factor here as well. force and our responsibility in supply chains. You are cordially
invited to join us in this.
Gender diversity is also taken for granted in codetermination at
Volkswagen. We actively encourage an increase in the proportion
of female managers and participate in the UN Global Compact’s Oliver Blume and Daniela Cavallo
Target Gender Equality program. Our goal is gender equality at all
levels of the Group.
DROWEROF
ABOUT THIS REPORT
Further information, particularly information relevant to ESG in-
vestors – for example, on the brands’ and regions’ sustainability
REPORT STRUCTURE activities and also ESG KPIs – is available on the Group’s corporate
website and is not part of this report.
This 2022 Group Sustainability Report is based on internationally
established frameworks and requirements, such as the standards Sustainability in the Group’s DNA > Sustainability Management
of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI, see also following section),
the German CSR Directive Implementation Act (CSR-Richtlinie- Sustainability in the Group’s DNA >
Umsetzungsgesetz – CSR-RUG), ESG sustainability ratings and stake- ESG Performance Management and Materiality Analysis
holder expectations. The report is supplemented by a detailed de-
scription of the sustainability activities of our brands and regions www.volkswagenag.com > Sustainability >
and of the Volkswagen Group’s corporate citizenship projects. Reporting & ESG Performance
VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION
2022 SUSTAINABILITY WEBSITE ADDITIONAL
REPORT COMMUNICATION
www.volkswagenag.com > www.volkswagen-
including Sustainability > Reporting newsroom.com/en
2022 Nonfinancial
Statement
BASIS FOR REPORT Volkswagen systematically uses the GRI Standards (with reference
to) as the underlying structure for reporting on management ap-
For reporting year 2022, Volkswagen AG is issuing a nonfinancial proaches and the specific standard disclosures. The GRI Content In-
statement at Company level and a nonfinancial Group declaration, dex has been separated from the 2022 Sustainability Report and can
which are being published together as a combined separate non- be found as a separate document in the Group portal:
financial report within the meaning of German Commercial Code
(Handelsgesetzbuch – HGB) sections 289b para. 3 and 315b para. 3. www.volkswagenag.com > Sustainability >
The nonfinancial report is drawn up in accordance with HGB section Reporting & ESG Performance > Sustainability Report
315c, in conjunction with sections 289c through 289e. In line with
the German CSR Directive Implementation Act (CSR-RUG), this non- As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, we also contin-
financial report concentrates on the focus issues necessary for an uously report how we are putting the Ten Principles into corporate
understanding of the Volkswagen Group’s business development, practice. Our current progress report can be found on the UN Global
overall performance and position as well as the Volkswagen Group’s Compact’s website:
impact on nonfinancial aspects. We are again reporting on our climate
protection activities in line with the requirements of the Task Force United Nations Global Compact
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
The strategy chapter and the six following chapters on focus issues
Furthermore, the GRI Standards are used as the framework for in the report each consist of a text section plus a consolidated KPI
drawing up the nonfinancial report. In this Sustainability Report, table at the end of each chapter.
TROPER
SIHT
TUOBA
References to disclosures outside the nonfinancial report are sup- report prepared in accordance with HGB sections 289b para. 3 and
plementary information and do not form part of this report. The 315b para. 3 to verify that its disclosures comply with the relevant
following passages are also not part of the nonfinancial report: statutory requirements. Further information on the engagement
can be found in the independent practitioner’s report on a limited
• Foreword (pp. 5–6) assurance engagement on the nonfinancial reporting.
• The German Corporate Governance Code – A Blueprint for
Successful Corporate Governance (p. 12) DISCLOSURES IN CONNECTION WITH THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL
• Further Information and The Volkswagen Value Chain (p. 13) STATEMENTS
• Making the Social and Environmental Impact of Our Actions
Measurable (p. 19) Connections have been identified in this combined nonfinancial
report to amounts reported in the 2022 annual or consolidated
The information in this report relates to the Volkswagen Group as a financial statements.
whole. Where information relates to individual Group divisions only,
this is clearly indicated in the text. Unless indicated otherwise, any In fiscal year 2022, the operating result in the Passenger Cars Business
information provided for the Group also applies to Volkswagen AG. Area was affected by negative special items of €0.4 billion in
In addition to Volkswagen AG, the Group includes all major sub- connection with the diesel issue. These special items were mainly
sidiaries inside and outside Germany that are directly or indirectly attributable to additional expenses for legal risks.
controlled by Volkswagen AG.
To hedge the currently known legal risks related to the diesel issue,
In the financial data, our joint ventures in China are reported using the provisions for litigation and legal risks as of December 31, 2022
the equity accounting method. However, they are included in full include an amount of around €1.4 billion, based on existing infor-
(100%) in volume-related data (sales, production and workforce) and mation and current assessments. Insofar as these can be adequately
in production-related environmentally relevant data. The manage- measured at this stage, contingent liabilities relating to the diesel
ment approaches described in this report (e.g., the environmental issue were disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial state-
compliance management system [ECMS] and the compliance man- ments in an aggregate amount of €4.2 billion, whereby €3.6 billion of
agement system for business and human rights [CMS BHR]) apply to this amount results from lawsuits filed by investors in Germany.
all the Volkswagen Group’s controlled companies. With our non- The provisions recognized, the contingent liabilities disclosed, and
controlled companies – i.e., companies that are not controlled by a the other latent legal risks in the context of the diesel issue are in part
company of the Volkswagen Group as the majority owner – we work subject to substantial estimation risks given the complexity of the
to the extent feasible and permitted by law toward implementation individual relevant factors, the ongoing coordination with the au-
of the adjusted management approaches. The Chinese joint ven- thorities, and the fact that the fact-finding efforts have not yet been
tures are included in the information on the Volkswagen Group in concluded. Should these legal or estimation risks materialize, this
the KPIs and the associated targets on the topics of the UEP, the DCI, could result in further substantial financial charges. In particular,
the Opinion Survey, the diversity index, training hours per employee, adjustment of the provisions recognized in light of knowledge
accident indices and accident figures. The risks of the Chinese market acquired or events occurring in the future cannot be ruled out.
are recorded by Volkswagen (China) Investment Company Ltd.
The remaining provisions relate to a wide range of identifiable indi-
The KPIs presented in this report build on the indicators presented vidual risks, price risks and contingent liabilities, which are fac-
in previous years. Any material changes to the methods used to tored in in the amount of their probable occurrence. Depending on
collect and measure the data on our sustainability performance are the jurisdiction concerned, risk provisions for any non compliance
explicitly disclosed for the respective KPIs. All figures shown in the with statutory emissions limits are also included. Their measure-
report are rounded, so minor discrepancies may arise from addition ment takes into account, among other things, the respective sales
of these amounts. volume and the legally defined fee or the cost of acquiring emission
rights from other manufacturers. Advantage has been taken of
REPORT AUDITING synergies between individual brands of the Volkswagen Group by
establishing emission pools where possible. Additional information
Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (EY) con- on this matter and the valuation assumptions and bases can be
ducted a voluntary, limited assurance engagement in accordance found in the Annual Report in the notes to the consolidated financial
with ISAE 3000 (Revised) on the combined separate nonfinancial statements.
TROPER
SIHT
TUOBA
ADDITIONAL REPORTING WITHIN THE GROUP ABOUT THIS REPORT
By referencing this combined separate nonfinancial report, all The editorial deadline was February 17, 2023. The Group Sustain-
Group companies that are required by national legislation to disclose ability Report is published in the first quarter of 2023 and is also
nonfinancial and diversity-related information pursuant to Direc- available in the original German. In the event of any discrepancies,
tive 2014/95/EU but do not issue their own nonfinancial statement the German authoritative version of the document takes precedence
are exempted from the obligation to submit their own nonfinancial over the English translation.
reports.
LEGAL INFORMATION
TERMINOLOGY RELATING TO CLIMATE PROTECTION
This sustainability report contains statements relating to the future
The use of the term CO2 emissions in this report includes the con- business development of the Volkswagen Group. These statements
sideration and identification of additional climate-damaging green- are based on assumptions relating to the development of the eco-
house gases such as methane (CH₄) and laughing gas (N2O) (CO2 nomic, political and legal environment in individual countries,
equivalents). All figures in this report on CO2 emissions correspond economic regions and markets, and in particular for the automotive
to CO2 equivalents, except for fleet emission figures. industry, which we have made on the basis of the information avail-
able to us and which we consider to be realistic as of the time of go-
Net carbon neutrality is achieved when anthropogenic CO2 emissions ing to press. The estimates given involve a degree of risk, and the
are balanced worldwide through avoidance, reduction and offsetting actual developments may differ from those forecast. Any changes
over a specific period of time. With regard to climate protection, in in significant parameters relating to our key sales markets, or any
addition to CO2 emissions Volkswagen also pays attention to all other significant shifts in exchange rates, energy and other commodities
relevant greenhouse gases. Avoidance and reduction have priority or the supply of parts relevant to the Volkswagen Group, or devia-
over offsetting for the Volkswagen Group. For offsetting measures, tions in the actual effects of the Covid-19 pandemic from the sce-
the Group follows internationally established standards. nario presented in this report will have a corresponding effect on
the development of our business. In addition, there may be depar-
EDITORIAL NOTES tures from our expected business development if the assessments
of the factors influencing sustainable value enhancement, and of
Whenever this report uses the term Sustainability Report, this ex- risks and opportunities, presented in this sustainability report
pression includes the nonfinancial report each time it is mentioned develop in a way other than we expect at the time of publication, or
to the extent described on page 8 . if additional risks and opportunities or other factors that affect the
development of our business emerge.
REPORTING PRACTICES
The nonfinancial report is published annually. The last nonfinancial
report was published on March 15, 2022. In addition to information
about the Group’s sustainability activities in the 2022 fiscal year
(January 1 to December 31, 2022), this 2022 nonfinancial report
also contains selected information from the 2023 fiscal year.
TROPER
SIHT
TUOBA
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
www.volkswagenag.com > Investor Relations
OUTLINE OF THE LEGAL STRUCTURE OF THE GROUP Volkswagen AG is a vertically integrated energy supply company
as defined by section 3 no. 38 of the German Energy Industry Act
Volkswagen AG is the parent company of the Volkswagen Group. (Energiewirtschaftsgesetz – EnWG) and is therefore subject to the
It develops vehicles and components for passenger cars and light provisions of the EnWG. In the electricity sector, Volkswagen AG
commercial vehicles for the Volkswagen Passenger Cars and generates, sells and distributes electricity together with Group
Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles brands. In its capacity as parent subsidiaries.
company, Volkswagen AG holds direct or indirect interests in
AUDI AG, SEAT S.A., ŠKODA AUTO a.s., Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG The Volkswagen AG Board of Management has sole responsibility
(Porsche AG), TRATON SE, Volkswagen Financial Services AG, for managing the Company. The Supervisory Board appoints,
Volkswagen Bank GmbH and a large number of other companies in monitors and advises the Board of Management and is directly
Germany and abroad. More detailed disclosures are contained in consulted on decisions of fundamental significance for the Company.
the list of shareholdings in accordance with sections 285 and 313
of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch – HGB), which
can be accessed on the website and is part of the annual financial
statements.
VOLKSWAGEN AG SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE EMPLOYEES BY MARKET
as of December 31, 2022, in % of voting capital as of December 31, 2022, in %
German institutional Porsche Automobil Europe (excluding
investors 2.6 Holding SE 31.9 South America 5 Germany)/other
markets 30
State of Lower Saxony11.8 North America 6
Qatar Holding LLC 10.5 Asia-Pacific16
Foreign institutional
Private shareholders/ investors 22.2 Germany 43
others 21.0
The Volkswagen Group is one of the leading multi-brand groups in brands, the Volkswagen Group is present in all relevant markets
the automotive industry. The Group’s business activities comprise the around the world. The key sales markets currently include the
Automotive and Financial Services divisions. Our core brands within Western Europe region and China, the USA, Brazil, Poland, Mexico,
the Automotive Division – with the exception of the Volkswagen Türkiye and the Czech Republic.
Passenger Cars and Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles brands – are
independent legal entities. The Automotive Division comprises the Volkswagen AG and the Volkswagen Group are managed by the
Passenger Cars, Commercial Vehicles and Power Engineering business Volkswagen AG Board of Management in accordance with the
areas. The Passenger Cars Business Area essentially consolidates the Volkswagen AG Articles of Association and the rules of procedure for
Volkswagen Group’s passenger car brands and the Volkswagen Volkswagen AG’s Board of Management issued by the Supervisory
Commercial Vehicles brand. Activities focus on the development of Board. Accordingly, responsibilities were divided among 11 board-
vehicles, engines and vehicle software, the production and sale of level management functions starting from January 1, 2022. In addition
passenger cars and light commercial vehicles, and the genuine parts to the Chair of the Board of Management, which also includes the
business. The product portfolio extends from small cars through to Volume brand group, the other Board positions are Purchasing,
luxury vehicles in the premium segment. It also includes motor- Technology, Finance, Human Resources and Truck & Bus, Integrity
cycles and is supplemented by mobility solutions. The Commercial and Legal Affairs, Premium, Sport & Luxury, IT, China, and Volkswagen
Vehicles Business Area primarily comprises the development, produc- Passenger Cars. A new Group Sales function was created with effect
tion and sale of trucks and buses, the corresponding genuine parts from February 1, 2022. As of September 1, 2022, the Volkswagen
business and related services. The commercial vehicles portfolio Group refined its Group management. The Board of Management was
ranges from light vans to heavy trucks and buses. The collaboration streamlined, and responsibilities were reallocated: The Purchasing
between the commercial vehicle brands is coordinated within and Group Sales Board functions were dissolved. In addition, the
TRATON SE. The Power Engineering Business Area combines the large- Volkswagen Passenger Cars function was renamed Volume. Since
bore diesel engines, turbomachinery and propulsion components then, responsibilities have been divided between ten board- level
businesses. The Financial Services Division’s activities comprise dealer management functions. In addition to the Chair of the Board of
and customer financing, vehicle leasing, direct banking and insur- Management, the other Board positions are Technology, Finance,
ance activities, fleet management and mobility services. With its Human Resources and Truck & Bus, Integrity and Legal Affairs,
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
Volume, Premium, Sport & Luxury, IT, and China. The Chair of the In the Mobility Solutions technology platform, Volkswagen
Board of Management is also responsible for Sport & Luxury. Directly strengthened the Group’s expertise in advanced fleet management
connected to the Board are a number of Group Management through the equity investment in the Europcar Mobility Group in
functions that act as an extension to the board-level management the reporting period. The aim is to be able to achieve even better
functions. These comprise the Group Sales, Group Production, coverage of all customers’ mobility needs based on a new mobility
Procurement and Technical Architecture functions. platform.
The allocation of responsibilities of the Board of Management is We are convinced that our corporate structure, which efficiently
based on the schedule of responsibilities decided by the Supervisory connects the brand groups and technology platforms, will enable
Board, which takes into account the changes in the management us to make better use of existing expertise and economies of scale,
during the reporting period. Its structure contributes to enabling the leverage synergies more systematically and accelerate decision-
Board of Management to focus on key tasks such as strategy, central making. Clear responsibilities and a high degree of business respon-
decisions on the Company’s direction, capital allocation and finan- sibility in the brand groups and technology platforms will enable
cial requirements. The tasks of the extended Group management comprehensive implementation of the Group’s NEW AUTO strategy.
serve to leverage synergies in the Group and to connect the brands
and divisions. LEGAL FACTORS INFLUENCING BUSINESS
In addition, at Group level, Board of Management committees Like other international companies, the business of the Volkswagen
address key strategic issues relating to products, technologies, in- companies is affected by numerous laws in Germany and abroad.
vestments, digital transformation, integrity and compliance, risk In particular, there are legal requirements relating to services, de-
management, human resources and management issues. We are velopment, products, production and distribution, as well as super-
continually revising and optimizing the committees in order to visory, data protection, financial, company, commercial, capital
verify that they still align with our corporate strategy and to further market, antitrust and tax regulations and regulations relating to
increase the efficiency of their decision-making. This is intended labor, banking, state aid, energy, environmental and insurance law.
to r educe complexity and reinforce governance within the Group.
THE GERMAN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE –
The matrix of brand groups and technology platforms created under A BLUEPRINT FOR SUCCESSFUL CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
the Group Steering Model base initiative from the Group strategy
NEW AUTO was enhanced in both dimensions during the reporting Corporate governance provides the regulatory framework for corpo-
period. This involved both strengthening the brand groups and creat- rate management and supervision. This includes a company’s orga-
ing new units for key technology areas of the future within our strate- nization and values and the principles and guidelines for its business
gic technology platforms. The Group steering model will be further policy. The German Corporate Governance Code (the Code) contains
refined in the future on this basis. principles, recommendations and suggestions for corporate man-
agement and supervision. Its principles, recommendations and sug-
The Volume brand group comprises the Volkswagen Passenger Cars, gestions were prepared by a dedicated government commission on
ŠKODA, SEAT/CUPRA and Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles brands. the basis of the material provisions and nationally and internation-
The Premium brand group comprises the Audi, Lamborghini, Bentley ally accepted standards of sound, responsible corporate governance.
and Ducati brands. The Sport & Luxury brand group consists of the In the interests of best practice, the government commission regu-
Porsche brand. The company responsible for this brand, Porsche AG, larly reviews the Code’s relevance in light of current developments
has been listed on the stock market since the end of September 2022. and updates it as necessary. The Board of Management and the
In the Truck & Bus brand group, TRATON SE acts as the umbrella for Supervisory Board of Volkswagen AG base their work on the Code’s
the Scania, MAN, Volkswagen Truck & Bus and Navistar commercial principles, recommendations and suggestions. We consider good
vehicles brands. TRATON SE is also a listed company. As well as corporate governance to be a key prerequisite for achieving a lasting
strengthening the brand groups, the reorganization and creation of increase in the Company’s value. It helps strengthen the trust of
new units enabled substantial progress with the Software, Battery & our shareholders, customers, employees, business partners and in-
Charging and Mobility Solutions technology platforms in the vestors in our work and enables us to meet the steadily increasing
reporting period. The software subsidiary CARIAD was further ex- demand for information from national and international stake-
panded, getting a subsidiary of its own in China, among other things. holders. You can find our published Declaration of Conformity
with the German Corporate Governance Code here:
In addition to this, Volkswagen founded PowerCo SE in the reporting
period as part of the Battery & Charging technology platform. This www.volkswagenag.com > Investor Relations > Corporate
company is responsible for the Group’s global battery business. In Governance > Declarations
addition to producing battery cells, it will also take on other activi-
ties along the battery value chain in the future.
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
FURTHER INFORMATION The Volkswagen AG Group Board of Management has adopted an
update of the tax strategy principles, which has been published on
Explanations of the composition, working methods and diversity Volkswagen AG’s website.
concept of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board
and information on voting rights are available in the Corporate Each year, Volkswagen AG sends the German Federal Central Tax
Governance chapter in the 2022 Annual Report. Office a country-by-country report, which includes information on
tax payments and tax expenses/income by country.
2022 Annual Report > Corporate Governance
The Volkswagen Group has the ambition of implementing its
marketing and communication activities transparently and respon-
Extensive explanations of the remuneration system and the indi- sibly. This includes attentiveness towards our environment and re-
vidual remuneration of the members of the Board of Management quires us to treat all individuals with respect and honesty and as
and Supervisory Board can be found in the Remuneration Report for equals. This applies internally and externally, online and off. To
fiscal year 2022, which forms part of the 2022 Annual Report, in the this end, the Group has developed principles that serve as a com-
notes to Volkswagen’s 2022 consolidated financial statements and in pass for implementing the Volkswagen Group’s values with regard
the notes to the 2022 annual financial statements of Volkswagen AG. to marketing and communication activities.
www.volkswagenag.com > Investor Relations > Corporate www.volkswagenag.com > Sustainability >
Governance > Remuneration Strategy, Policy & Engagement > Policy
THE VOLKSWAGEN VALUE CHAIN
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT
The Automotive Division’s research and development costs in the reporting year totaled €18.9 billion and were thus 21.3% higher than in the
previous year. In addition to new models, our activities focused above all on the electrification of our vehicle portfolio, digitalization, new
technologies and enhancements of our modular and all-electric toolkits and platforms.
PROCUREMENT
Every year, the Volkswagen Group purchases a wide range of raw materials, components and other goods. A sustainable supply chain and
environmentally compatible transportation are important for fully assuming responsibility for human rights, environmental protection and the
battle against corruption.
PRODUCTION
The Volkswagen Group manufactured an average of around 24,000 vehicles globally every working day in 2022. Efficient production ranks alongside
environmental protection and employee health and safety as one of our core goals.
MARKETING & SALES
Business relationships with fleet customers are often long-term and stable partnerships. The Volkswagen Group’s share of commercial fleet
customers is 43.5% in Germany and 25.7% in the rest of Europe.
AFTER-SALES & FINANCIAL SERVICES
Our service includes supporting dealerships to ensure they can provide quality advice and maintenance, managing our original parts business,
and providing vehicle-related financial services.
RECYCLING
In addition to recycling vehicles at the end of their useful life, we pay close attention during the new-vehicle development stage to the
recyclability of the required materials, the use of high-quality recycled materials, and the avoidance of pollutants.
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
NEW AUTO GROUP STRATEGY
customers with constantly improving digital functionality. As with
technological trends, global economic as well as geopolitical con-
In the context of the fast-changing environment and the challenges straints are increasingly confronting the automobile industry
resulting from it, the Group Board of Management adopted the with greater challenges – for example, the economic influence
Group strategy “NEW AUTO” – Mobility for Generations to Come in wielded by the biggest mobility markets, China, the USA and Europe,
May 2021 with the approval of the Supervisory Board. The strategy’s and the way they are diverging.
focus is the world of mobility in 2030. As technology advances, the
automotive industry is rapidly forging ahead with its transformation Sustainability will continue to be a recurring theme in the business
toward e-mobility and digitalization. We therefore expect the market world and will gain further pertinence, driven by the increasingly
for electric vehicles to grow strongly in the next few years, meaning noticeable consequences of climate change, a greater consciousness
that cost-efficient and sustainable production of battery systems of sustainable lifestyles on the part of the customer and, not least, un-
and the expansion of charging infrastructure will be crucial to suc- derlying factors such as the Paris Climate Agreement. As we transi-
cess. The shift to connected, intelligent and eventually self-driving tion from automotive manufacturer to mobility group, we are reset-
vehicles, however, will bring more wide-reaching changes for the ting our priorities with NEW AUTO and positioning ourselves for the
automotive industry. Autonomous driving will change the customer’s future. We are keeping our aim of being a world-leading provider of
mobility experience forever and lay the ground for new business sustainable mobility firmly in our sights and making the Group
models. Sources of revenue will gradually shift and will expand be- more focused, efficient, innovative, customer-oriented and sustain-
yond the core product of the automobile. This shift will be depen- able, as well as systematically gearing it toward profitable growth.
dent on increasing software development capabilities so as to excite
THE 12 INITIATIVES OF THE NEW AUTO STRATEGY
VOLUME PREMIUM SPORT & LUXURY
TTEECCHH PPLLAATTFFOORRMMSS TTEECCHH IINNIITTIIAATTIIVVEESS
MECHATRONICS 01 | Backbone and Scalable Systems Platform (SSP)
SOFTWARE 02 | CARIAD: One E3 Platform and Autonomous Driving Stack
BATTERY & CHARGING 03 | Cell and Battery Strategy 04 | Charging and Energy Services
MOBILITY SOLUTIONS 05 | Mobility Solutions
BBAASSEE IINNIITTIIAATTIIVVEESS
06 | ESG, Decarbonization and Integrity
07 | Business 08 | NAR 09 | China 10 | Group Steering 11 | People &
Model 2.0 Region Region Model Transformation
12 | Financing the Transformation
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
To this end, we have established 12 Group initiatives across the brand long term, the standardized E³ 2.0 software architecture that is al-
groups. We will use these to develop the competences needed to ready being developed, together with the VW.OS software platform
implement the strategy. The focus is on the main multidisciplinary and the Volkswagen Automotive Cloud, will form the basis of a
topics of mechatronics, software, battery & charging, and mobility complete digital ecosystem, offering customers a wide range of soft-
solutions, on which the five tech initiatives described below are based. ware-based services throughout the product life cycle. The aim is
A further seven base initiatives form the basis for the Volkswagen for every function that is needed or requested and every service to
Group’s strategic realignment. These are ESG, Decarbonization & be customized for the users in the various markets and to be avail-
Integrity, Business Model 2.0, North America (NAR) and China Re- able for download at any time. This will also open up new sources
gions, Group Steering Model, People & Transformation and Financ- of revenue for us. Automated driving applications at various levels
ing the Transformation. (up to level 4) are to be gradually introduced to the new vehicle
models in the Group brands.
To make the progress in the relevant Group initiatives of our strategy
as transparent as possible for management and employees, the Battery & Charging – Cell and Battery Strategy
Group Board of Management decided to structure and regularly The battery is a key component in an electric vehicle and an im-
measure the strategic goals and milestones using the OKR (objectives portant cost factor. The appeal and market success of e-mobility is
and key results) method. Achievable strategic objectives and envis- determined not only by the price, but also by the range and the
aged key results are defined for each Group initiative. These are to be charging speed. We must become a profit-generating expert across
realized largely through time-limited projects and work packages, the entire battery life cycle to achieve our objective of transforming
each of which is measured by specific key performance indicators. The into a world-leading provider of sustainable mobility. To this end,
degree of achievement is discussed three times a year with the Board the Cell and Battery Strategy tech initiative pools expertise across
of Management. The relevance of the initiatives, and their objec- the Group and is driving the transformation process in cooperation
tives, milestones, projects and work packages, are regularly reviewed with our strategic partners. The aspects covered include battery
at Group level. Their focus is continuously monitored and adjusted management, cell production and recycling. Our aim is to develop
as necessary or integrated into standard operations. battery cell technology into a core competence in the Group, and we
are also working with partners to achieve this. At the heart of this
Mechatronics – Backbone and Scalable Systems Platform strategy is the new unified cell, which can contain different chem-
A future-oriented mechatronics platform will form the backbone for istries and will be used in up to 80% of Group models by 2030. The
innovations, technology and lasting competitiveness at Volkswagen. excellent economies of scale this generates will reduce costs by up
With the Scalable Systems Platform (SSP), we are creating the next to 50% and put us in a leading cost position. To cover the high de-
generation of an all-electric, fully digital and highly scalable mecha- mand for battery cells, Volkswagen plans to build six gigafactories
tronics platform on the basis of a standardized software architec- in Europe alone, with a production capacity totaling 240 GWh.
ture. With this standardized platform, which can be scaled from
the smallest vehicles all the way up to the premium segment, the Battery & Charging – Charging and Energy Services
Volkswagen Group aims to rapidly and efficiently provide its cus- Charging, energy and a sustainable energy supply infrastructure
tomers with innovative functions and technologies in their vehicles, for all-electric vehicles are key prerequisites for accelerating the
across all brands. By reducing complexity and the number of transition to battery-electric mobility of the future. It is therefore
versions, the SSP will offer us maximum synergy effects and make our intention to also become a comprehensive charging and energy
fast, regular technology updates possible, while lowering invest- services provider in the future, and we are investing heavily in
ment costs and ensuring the necessary differentiation between building an open fast-charging network worldwide. By 2025, we and
the products of the individual brands in the Group’s portfolio. our partners plan to create around 45,000 high-power charging
points in Europe, China and the USA. The product portfolio also in-
Software – CARIAD: ONE E³ Platform and Autonomous Driving cludes the full range of charging solutions for private customers
(AD) Stack and companies. In addition to the Group’s own wall box and the
The purpose of the Group’s own software and technology company flexible fast-charging station, contract-based charging services and
CARIAD is to create the technical basis for data-based business smart green electricity tariffs in particular are becoming the focus.
models, new mobility services and automated driving (Level 4) and to Charging processes will then systematically use renewable energy
leverage cross-brand synergies. Our aim is to increase the proportion and reduce pressure on power grids. In a next step, Volkswagen
of software in the vehicle that is developed in house. CARIAD is intends to develop the electric vehicle as a mobile power bank, thus
already working with the Porsche and Audi brands to introduce the helping electric vehicles to become an active part of the energy
new E³ 1.2 platform, which optimizes the harmonization of the system in the future as storage devices. In this way, Volkswagen
hardware with the vehicle software from CARIAD. This facilitates wants to enable its customers to participate in one of the leading
the deployment of over-the-air updates and is a key lever for intro- smart-charging and energy ecosystems for decarbonized mobility.
ducing new services even after vehicle production has begun. In the
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
Mobility Solutions North America (NAR) region
With the motto, “Mobility for Generations to Come,” the Volkswagen For the Volkswagen Group, North America, and particularly the
Group is developing mobility solutions of the future, taking into United States, is the region with the greatest growth potential, espe-
account global trends and changing customer needs. The Group cially where e-mobility is concerned. We intend North America to
plans to bring together all of its brands’ mobility services on one become our third core region alongside Europe and China by 2030.
mobility platform over the coming years. Autonomous driving com- Our aim there is to achieve a total market share for the Volkswagen
bined with new mobility solutions is expected to mark Volkswagen’s Group of 10%. We aspire to expand our presence in the region with
transformation into a leading provider of sustainable mobility. A strong brands and prepare ourselves for the future with market-
vehicle fleet covering all of the many services, from vehicle rental to specific products.
car subscription and ride pooling, will ensure high availability,
usage and profitability. With these solutions, we plan to gain market We also wish to participate to a disproportionately high extent in
shares and generate long-term competitive and attractive margins. the growth of the increasingly electrified markets in the USA and
Canada. We will therefore substantially expand our range of all-
ESG, Decarbonization and Integrity electric models across the Group and develop models specifically
ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance) refers to the basic principles for these markets. The proportion of battery-electric vehicles in our
of doing business sustainably. The Group’s stakeholders (e.g., inves- sales in the USA and Canada is to increase to 55% by 2030. In addi-
tors, employees, customers and non-profit organizations) have high tion, we wish to maximize the potential for synergies in the region
expectations of the Company’s ESG performance, including in areas and build significantly more expertise, industrial capacity and
such as decarbonization and integrity, and also of its conduct as an vertical value chains in the North America region.
employer and as part of society. The Group’s ESG performance there-
fore directly affects its market capitalization, cost of capital and China Region
investing activities. We aim for a top position relative to our com- China is of major strategic significance to the Volkswagen Group as
petitors in sustainability ratings. We are committed to the Paris its largest single market, and we expect it to continue growing in the
Climate Agreement and align our own activities with the 1.5 °C future. This strategic base initiative therefore brings together all of
goal. We aim to achieve net carbon neutrality by 2050. By 2030, we the key measures needed to continue the success story of Volkswagen
have also set ourselves the target of reducing CO2 emissions from in China. These include a comprehensive program of measures with
passenger cars and light commercial vehicles over the total life a focus on cost, long-term technological competitiveness, localized
cycle by 30% compared with 2018. As part of this effort, we are look- development activities that are tailored to the market, and the further
ing for ways to increase the proportion of recyclable materials in consolidation of our existing partnerships. Our aim is to achieve
our SSP-based vehicles. We also wish to become the benchmark for high market shares in the electric vehicle segment and establish
ethical corporate conduct. Volkswagen sees itself as an equal op- ourselves as a leading provider. For vehicles with combustion engines,
portunities employer. The intention is therefore for at least a fifth our aim is to maintain our share of the market, as these will also
of Company management positions to be held by women by 2025, make a contribution to profit in the future if unit sales remain high.
and for at least a quarter to be held by international managers.
We are therefore continuing to accelerate our Group-wide localiza-
Business Model 2.0 tion strategy in China so as to offer our Chinese customers tailor-
The Business Model 2.0 base initiative is developing a Group-wide made products, and we are using not only global platform technol-
portfolio of services, the purpose of which is to create a seamless ogies (hardware and software), but are increasingly employing
and innovative product experience to connect brands, customers, platform technologies that have been developed locally. In this way,
dealerships, our partners and whole markets. The aim is for the we wish to stand our ground in the face of constantly growing
key technologies needed for this to be integrated into a majority of competition in the new intelligent connected vehicle (ICV) segment.
the platform-based vehicles by 2030. Using connected vehicles, the
Group’s brands are to be able in the future to remain in contact with Group Steering Model
their customers throughout the entire vehicle life cycle and thus To achieve the objectives of the Group strategy and thereby safe-
to offer them services and functions for their individual needs. This guard the Volkswagen Group’s long-term success, we are under-
will allow us to build a competitive, data-driven service portfolio taking far-reaching optimization of our Group steering model. It is
that also maintains our leading position in the automotive market essential that we establish a consistently high level of mechanisms
in future. that facilitate swift decision-making, the development and use of
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
platform technologies and the exploitation of synergies, and that Financing the Transformation
we constantly enhance these. The updated Group Steering Model The transformation being driven by digitalization and electrifica-
places the brand groups and technology platforms center stage in tion will require extensive investment. To meet this need for fi-
order to scale the latter across the entire Group product portfolio, nancing, the Financing the Transformation base initiative aims to
taking account of synergies. A new strategy and product planning leverage even more Group-wide synergies across all functional
process that has been optimized for efficiency is being developed areas along the value chain, focusing on costs and efficiency. The
on the basis of this approach. The package of measures for this Group has therefore set itself the objective of lasting improvements
initiative hones the definition of roles and responsibilities in the to its fixed-cost structure, plant productivity, procurement, distri-
Group and improves transparency in this respect both inside and bution expenses and working capital management.
outside the Company. It also promotes the entrepreneurship of the
independent units and brands and at the same time strengthens
collaboration across the Group. STRATEGIC KEY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS:¹
2015 2025 target
People & Transformation Operating return on sales² 6.0% 8 to 9%
As it becomes a global tech company, the Volkswagen Group will see
Research and development 7.4% ~6%
the biggest transformation of its workforce in its corporate history. ratio (R&D ratio) in the
Automotive Division
To ensure the Group remains competitive in the future, we need to
attract top talent and support existing employees by providing ex- Ratio of capex to sales 6.9% ~5%
revenue in the Automotive
tensive training where required. Our aim is to retain staff for the Division
long term. It is therefore fundamental that we address the changing
Net cash flow in the Auto- €8,887 million > €10 billion
needs of our employees and offer them an outstanding employee motive Division
experience. To achieve our Group’s ambitious objectives, we must Payout ratio negative > 30%
also create and promote an environment for productive teams, re- Net liquidity in the Automo- €24,522 million ~10% of Group sales
sulting in a strong, sustainable and socially responsible corporate tive Division 11.5% revenue
culture that fosters a sense of belonging and loyalty to the Company. Return on investment (ROI) –0.2% > 15%
in the Automotive Division
A further focus is on aligning the Company with society and the
environment. 1 The content of the strategic financial KPI is currently being revised.
2 2015 before special items.
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
ESG PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT
Each focus issue is – to the extent currently possible – linked
AND MATERIALITY ANALYSIS with clear targets and milestones and with KPIs and packages of
measures. ESG-related KPIs such as the decarbonization index (DCI)
and the diversity index are already reflected in the remuneration
MATERIALITY ANALYSIS LINKED WITH GROUP STRATEGY AND of members of the Board of Management.
ESG PERFORMANCE
Corporate Governance
The materiality analysis is used to identify and evaluate the most
important sustainability issues for the Group. Based on the business The topics classified as material also provide the foundation for
model and its impact on society, the focus is on key ESG requirements, the structure of this sustainability report and serve as the basis for
stakeholder expectations, and compliance with legal requirements managing the Volkswagen Group’s sustainability program.
and internationally established reporting standards.
ACTION PROGRAM FOR OPTIMIZED ESG PERFORMANCE
The Group conducted another materiality analysis in the reporting
period. In reviewing a large number of potentially material issues, The NEW AUTO Group strategy focuses not only on technological
we considered both external and internal company perspectives. and product-related initiatives but also on improving the Group’s
For the external side, 80 topic clusters were derived from 700 topics ESG performance. This is because this directly and indirectly im-
and weighted along 330 criteria. This was based on: pacts Volkswagen’s market capitalization, costs of capital and at-
tractiveness to investors. This is partly due to increasing density of
• Results of dialog processes with the Sustainability Council and regulations on sustainability as a result of frameworks such as the
the Stakeholder Panel EU Taxonomy or regulations on the responsible shaping of supply
• Reputation surveys chains. Moreover, capital market players such as institutional in-
• Requirements of relevant international and national frameworks vestors not only expect transparency on the Group’s sustainability
such as the EU Taxonomy, the German Commercial Code performance but also an effectively implemented strategy that
(Handelsgesetzbuch – HGB), the UN Global Compact, the Sustain- leads to continuous improvement in sustainability performance.
ability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), the Global Reporting A significant share of globally managed assets is already oriented
Initiative (GRI) or the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) toward ESG criteria.
• Key ESG ratings
• KI-supported trend analyses and management studies In the past reporting year, we significantly expanded our action
program that targets improvement of our results in ESG ratings by
For the internal dimension, we primarily took account of all Group 2025. It consists of four pillars:
policies on sustainability management, materiality analyses of the
Group brands and country-specific risk analyses of Volkswagen 1. ESG performance management: We are closing existing gaps
Group production sites. in ESG performance and creating additional transparency by dis-
closing our measures and key performance indicators.
The focus issues prioritized for the NEW AUTO Group strategy were
confirmed with this year’s materiality analysis and classified as 2. ESG engagement: We are intensifying our communication on
material by the Group Sustainability Steering Committee. The five ESG and sustainability in the capital market by communicating
nonfinancial matters arising from the German CSR Directive our messages and results in roadshows, investor conferences and
Implementation Act (CSR-Richtlinie-Umsetzungsgesetz – CSR-RUG) other formats. In this way, we explain our current performance
are covered by the six focus issues. In addition, these six focus and at the same time benefit from the learning effects and
areas, in turn, cover a significant part of the assessment criteria of knowledge transfer that this dialog makes possible.
ESG ratings:
www.volkswagenag.com > Investor Relations >
• Decarbonization Financial Calendar
• Circular economy
• People in the transformation
• Diversity
• Integrity
• Supply chain and human rights
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
3. Management of controversies: We aim to reduce the negative 4. Internal ESG data infrastructure: We are working on establishing
impact of legal or media controversies regarding the Volkswagen comprehensive ESG data reporting tools for better data-supported
Group on our rating results. We have developed a controversy infrastructure and will create comprehensive and custom ESG
management process for this, where a controversy forum was information offerings for relevant stakeholders in the future.
established that identifies existing and possible controversies and
derives measures to be taken. Our own web-based information Compared with prior years, the Group’s score in the ESG rating from
on existing ESG controversies around Volkswagen makes an Sustainalytics substantially improved from 29.6 to 26.1. In fiscal year
additional contribution to clarification and objectivization. 2022, Volkswagen continued to have a score of A– in the CDP climate
rating and had an A rating in the Water Disclosure Project (WDP).
www.volkswagenag.com > Investor Relations > Corporate
Governance > ESG Controversies
2020 2021 2022
MSCI CCC B B
Sustainalytics¹ 41.7 (severe risk) 29.6 (medium risk) 26.1 (medium risk)
ISS C C C
ESG rating scales
MSCI: CCC–AAA; Sustainalytics: 100–0; ISS: D– – A+
MAKING THE SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF OUR Volkswagen, particularly for the assessment of mobility concepts.
ACTIONS MEASURABLE Here, new options are continuously investigated for their sustain-
ability impact and readjusted as necessary.
The Volkswagen Group wants to measure the impact of its actions
even more comprehensively in quantitative terms in the future and, Sustainability Impact of New Mobility Options
if possible and reasonable, to monetize this. This involves assessing
positive and negative effects on, among other things, the environ- We are currently developing a Group-wide concept for measuring
mental and social systems for the purpose of the inside-out per- impact with the name of “Impact Valuation@Volkswagen Group.”
spective. This impact relates to the Group’s entire business, includ- The concept is based on the successful implementation of two pilot
ing its supply chain and its products and services. This means we projects at site and brand level.
are not only taking on board impetus from regulatory developments
as it emanates from the EU CSR Directive or the EU Green Bond In order to advance the topic of impact measurement and develop
Standard, but also impetus from international initiatives and organi- comparable concepts, the Volkswagen Group is a member of the
zations such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Value Balancing Alliance (VBA) together with the Porsche brand.
Development (OECD) and the World Business Council for Sustainable This initiative champions the development of uniform assessment
Development (WBCSD). At the same time, like other global companies, standards for impact measurement and the financial balancing of
we are endeavoring to make even greater use of an impact assess- sustainability impacts on an international level across sectors. In ad-
ment in our decision-making and management processes, risk dition to the Volkswagen Group, the VBA’s members include numer-
management, reporting and communication with our stakeholders. ous global companies, such as Bosch, BASF, BMW, Michelin and SAP.
Impact assessments already represent tried and tested tools at
1 Disclaimer: https://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers.
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT
STRUCTURE AND TASKS OF THE SUSTAINABILITY ORGANIZATION
Sustainability means maintaining intact environmental, social
and economic systems with long-term viability at global, regional
and local level. The Volkswagen Group can influence these systems
in various ways and actively takes responsibility to make a contri-
bution to preserving their sustainability. An extensive sustainability
management system was set up for this purpose. The related
structures, processes and responsibilities are codified in a specific
Group policy. We view sustainability management as a continu-
ous improvement process.
The Chairman of the Board of Management of Volkswagen AG has
cross-functional overall responsibility for sustainability. Additional
responsibility is taken by members of the Board of Management
with their responsibility for specific management systems relating
to sustainability and by the Group Steering Committee for Sustain-
ability. The members of this steering committee include managers
from central Board of Management business areas and Group func-
tions, representatives of the brands and the Group Works Council.
The steering committee defines concrete strategic targets and pro-
grams, sets out measures for uniform cross-business-area, cross-
brand and cross-regional development of sustainability manage-
ment and makes decisions on sustainability-related basic issues
and positions in the Volkswagen Group. In addition, topic-specific
questions on sustainability are addressed in Group initiative 6 of
the NEW AUTO Group strategy.
SUSTAINABILITY EMBEDDED IN THE VOLKSWAGEN GROUP
Organizational structure Structure of bodies
Chairman of the Board of
Board of Sustainability Members of the Board
Board of Manage- Manage- K-VS
Manage- Council communica- ment (CEO) ment of Management
ment level tion/advice
Top body
Group strategy and of Group
Group Office of the Group Group
Group
level Corporate Secretary pro- HR …
functions duction
Group Sustainability
GSC for
Sustainability
Brand BM
Brand Brand Sustainability Brand
level Manager Pro- HR
(Audi, Porsche ...) functions duction …
Brand
body
Region
level Region/site
Management of Discussion of core Management of Discussion of function- Group function
cross-functional topics sustainability processes function-specific topics specific topics sustainability managers
K-VS = Group Board of Management meeting GSC = Group Steering Committee Brand BM = Brand board of management meeting
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
The Group’s sustainability function (Group Sustainability) coordi-
nates all sustainability-related activities and the Group-wide and
cross-functional network for sustainability. Communication with
Group functions, brands and companies is structured via defined
core processes. They serve to create transparency on external re-
quirements and translate these into corporate action. The core pro-
cesses include the sustainability strategy and materiality analysis,
stakeholder management, ESG ratings and rankings, sustainability
policies and sustainability reporting. Group Sustainability is allo-
cated to Group strategy and the Office of the Corporate Secretary in
order to ensure that sustainability is closely linked with the strategic
corporate goals and the core business. It is also responsible for the
office of the Group Steering Committee for Sustainability.
In addition to the Group Steering Committee for Sustainability,
regular discussions within the Group-wide sustainability network
take place through various formats. One example of this is the
Group Sustainability Summit. In 2022, this was held in Berlin, and
its focus areas were ESG, mobility of the future, community en-
gagement and business models. The participants included manag-
ers from the Group and from the brands and regions. The Sustain-
ability Manager Core Team is another central communication
platform, where representatives from the Group and the brands
regularly address current sustainability issues. In addition, there
are specific steering models for individual topics, such as ESG
performance management.
At brand level, the brand sustainability managers carry out the have grown significantly in the last few years and have become in-
cross-functional coordination of sustainability topics, develop the dispensable as stakeholders. The Volkswagen Group and its brands
sustainability strategy, are responsible for content and reporting report on their progress in implementing the Ten Principles of the
on sustainability topics within the brand, represent the brand on UN Global Compact and their activities for promoting sustainable
sustainability topics externally and coordinate with Group development in the annual Communication on Progress, which can
Sustainability. be viewed on the UN Global Compact website.
THE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE AS AN INDEPENDENT United Nations Global Compact
DRIVING FORCE AND PARTNER
GREEN FINANCE FRAMEWORK
At Group level, the Sustainability Council has a prominent position. FOR INVESTMENTS IN SUSTAINABILITY
The advisory committee created in 2016 supports the Volkswagen
Group with important strategic sustainability topics and is made up Massive investment is needed to transform the Volkswagen Group.
of internationally renowned experts from the academic world, At the same time, investors are looking for sustainable investment
politics and society. The Council establishes its own working meth- options. Volkswagen AG has had a Green Finance Framework for
ods and areas of focus independently, has extensive rights for the various forms of financing such as green bonds since 2020. This
purposes of exchanging information, consultation and initiating document defines the framework for financial instruments geared
action, and consults regularly with the Board of Management, top to sustainability. In the reporting year, we refinanced fiscal year 2021
management and the employee representatives. capital expenditure aligned with the EU Taxonomy on the basis of
the Green Finance Framework newly published in 2022 by issuing
In 2022, the dialog between the Group and the Sustainability Council €2.5 billion in green bonds. The Volkswagen Group has thus i ssued
focused on comprehensively enshrining sustainability topics in the a total of €6.0 billion in green bonds to refinance capital expendi-
NEW AUTO Group strategy, the future alignment of mobility solu- ture for BEVs since 2020. In 2022, the Volkswagen Group published a
tions in this strategy and the impact of the war in Ukraine on the new Green Finance Framework that was further developed in particu-
Volkswagen Group. In addition, in connection with various projects lar through the integration of the EU Taxonomy. As was the case in the
the Council dealt with the following topics, among others: Dealing previous Green Finance Framework, the Volkswagen Group continues
with the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (Lieferketten- to focus on the exclusive inclusion of all-electric vehicle models
sorgfaltspflichtengesetz – LkSG), digital technologies as enablers for (BEVs) in sustainable financing. Under the new Green Finance Frame-
sustainability, the Zero Impact Factory concept, workforce trans- work, the only investments that will be considered are investments
formation, training staff and decarbonization of the Group. for BEVs produced by the Volkswagen Group that are aligned with the
EU Taxonomy. This systematically links our corporate objective of
Further information on the letters of recommendation to the net carbon neutrality by 2050 with our financing strategy. The funds
Group Board of Management and the results of the Council projects raised under the Green Finance Framework are specifically used on
are provided on the Sustainability Council web page. environmentally friendly projects such as e-mobility. This both
fulfills the clean transportation category of the Green Bond Princi-
www.volkswagenag.com > Sustainability > Strategy, ples of the International Capital Market Association (ICMA) and is in
Policy & Engagement > Engagement > Sustainability Council line with the goals of the United Nations and the European Union for
sustainable development. Sustainalytics has confirmed again for the
UN GLOBAL COMPACT new Green Finance Framework that the framework complies with
the ICMA’s Green Bond Principles and the Green Loan Principles of
Since 2021, after a five-year hiatus, the Volkswagen Group has offi- the Loan Market Association (LMA).
cially been reinstated as a participant of the UN Global Compact, the
world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative, and participates Volkswagen published the second Green Finance Report, which con-
in national and international initiatives. AUDI AG has also been tains the Allocation Report and the Impact Report, during the report-
reinstated as a participant in the UN Global Compact. Porsche AG ing year. More information is available on our corporate website.
and Traton SE have been new participants of the UN Global Compact
since 2022. In addition, the brands MAN Truck & Bus and Scania www.volkswagenag.com > Investor Relations >
are also signatories of the UN Global Compact. Fixed Income & Ratings > Green Finance
For investors and asset managers in the capital market, membership
of the UN Global Compact is an important criterion for investability
in Volkswagen AG shares and bonds. Sustainability-oriented funds
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
SUSTAINABILITY IMPACT OF
Against this background, the mobility simulation framework is
NEW MOBILITY OPTIONS being continuously developed as part of the Volkswagen Group’s
sustainability management. Its focus is on impact assessments
that digitally replicate mobility on the basis of real data. Technolo-
MAKING MOBILITY SOLUTIONS MEASURABLY MORE gies such as data analytics and machine learning help us to virtually
SUSTAINABLE pilot certain services in advance on a large scale in what is known
as a digital twin. This means that possible improvements – and also
Our global society today faces the major challenge of finding the any undesirable side effects – can be discovered early and taken
right balance when shaping mobility. The pressures of noise, traffic into account when developing mobility solutions.
jams, accidents, traffic areas or air quality need to be reduced in
many areas. At the same time, many people do not have suffi- We endeavor to regularly communicate with stakeholders on these
cient, affordable and accessible transportation, limiting their par- and other issues and continuously analyze trends so that we can
ticipation in society. This is not only the case in economically update targets and criteria as needed. The methods and models for
weaker regions but also in rural areas and suburbs. mobility simulation are also being continuously developed in
collaboration with universities. In addition to having a practical ap-
The Volkswagen Group offers both innovative vehicle technologies plication, our results feed back into the academic world through
and forward-looking mobility services. Through these, the Group publications and dialogs. Moreover, we use real data and empirical
wants not only to meet its customers’ requirements but also to help figures from mobility providers to continue to improve this. For
to solve local environmental and traffic problems in urban and example, MOIA, a young mobility company in the Volkswagen
rural areas and to protect the climate worldwide. Global cooperation Group, has developed on-demand ride pooling services and created
with partners outside the Group plays an important role. We are and published an extensive and scientifically independent long-term
guided here by the “Mobility for Generations to Come” vision that study on the impact of (autonomous) ride pooling on the Hamburg
our NEW AUTO Group strategy describes. traffic system as part of accompanying research in Hamburg.
NEW AUTO Group Strategy We use various key figures that are scientifically recognized and
also reflect the requirements of various players to evaluate mobility
Completion of the acquisition of Europcar Mobility Group (EMG) in services. For example, short and reliable journey times are impor-
July 2022 by the consortium company Green Mobility Holding S. A. tant for customers, while access for citizens and the reduction of
(GMH) with the partners Attestor Limited and Pon Holdings B.V. CO2 emissions is important for society; towns and cities for their
represents another important milestone for Volkswagen in its NEW part want traffic to occupy as little space as possible and to improve
AUTO strategy. EMG will become the cornerstone of a new platform air quality, while good utilization of its services is essential to the
that will cover customers’ mobility needs, from using a vehicle for a mobility provider.
few hours to subscription for multiple months. Our expectation is
that most people will still prefer individual mobility by 2030, but IMPORTANCE OF OVERARCHING IMPACT ANALYSES
it will be more about using and less about owning vehicles.
Measures for increasing efficiency and better capacity utilization
SIMULATION PLATFORM FOR MOBILITY CREATES continue to be important steps on the path to sustainable mobility.
TRANSPARENCY AND ENABLES IMPROVEMENTS In the case of ride pooling services such as MOIA, the transportation
needs of various customers must be linked as optimally as possible
It has been shown many times that new mobility concepts in par- in order to balance detours and waiting times with capacity. Model-
ticular increase the range of options in urban areas but are not au- ing and impact assessments provide valuable services here in order
tomatically sustainable. Creating a basis of assessment is therefore to represent the high level of complexity. It should be noted that
important so that mobility solutions can be assessed for their sus- these analyses always take an overarching view of traffic. This is be-
tainability impact and also influenced. This is because determining cause users take other options into account when making decisions.
the right framework conditions and regulations is of decisive im- Central to the sustainability assessment is what users of new
portance to make substantial contributions to sustainable cities and services – for example, ride pooling, e-scooters or car sharing – would
tap into business models for the Group. Political players and cities otherwise use or have previously used.
are also increasingly requiring early proof that mobility solutions
actually have sustainability effects, and operating licenses may be
conditional on this proof.
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
For example, there is a much debated question about whether ride UNDERSTANDING URBAN MOBILITY AND DEVELOPING
pooling might ever overtake public transportation. Initial fears are, IT SUSTAINABLY TOGETHER
however, proving wrong. MOIA’s accompanying research instead
proved the opposite: The research showed that the mobility net- In general, shaping urban mobility plays a key role for the
work – and especially public transportation – would benefit from Volkswagen Group because many mobility options are primarily
the expansion of ride pooling. MOIA has maintained a close partner- available in cities. According to the UN’s estimates, almost 70%
ship in Hamburg with the transportation company Hamburger of the global population will live in cities by 2050.
Hochbahn since its service started in 2019. One example of this was
the use of MOIA vehicles as a building block in the rail replacement The traffic-induced problems are the most urgent in urban centers
service when fire damaged a suburban railroad bridge in August 2022. and their commuter belts, and the potential for change is also the
This strengthened the traffic system’s resilience to disruptions. greatest here. As a member of the World Business Council for Sustain-
able Development (WBCSD) for many years, we seek dialog with
ANALYSIS RESULTS SHOW POTENTIAL other companies contributing to the transformation and with stake-
OF OPTIMIZED VEHICLE USE holders in order to identify our own scope for action. For example,
the Volkswagen Group continued its collaboration on the WBSCD’s
The impact assessments provide important pointers to which levers Transforming Urban Mobility (TUM) project in 2022. Focal topics
can be used to improve the sustainability impact of new mobility included commuter traffic and digitalization. The research topics
solutions. This particularly applies with regard to reducing CO2 included the ways in which data and new technologies can positively
emissions and better use of scarce space in towns and cities. In addi- impact sustainable development.
tion to ride pooling, the focus is also on more efficient use of vehi-
cles. In particular, privately used cars are mostly underutilized. On ASTYPALEA: TRANSFORMATION TO A SMART AND
average, they are only used for around an hour per day and occupy GREEN ISLAND
parking spaces in private or public areas for the rest of the time,
which in turn takes up valuable urban space. The life cycle of the Astypalea is a living lab for smart and sustainable mobility solu-
vehicle is long, which leads to less environmentally friendly, outdat- tions in Europe. The Greek island is located in the Aegean Sea, has
ed technologies being used for too long on the roads. By contrast, 1,300 citizens and is similar in size to the German island of Sylt. In
electric robotaxis could operate around the clock in the future. Car addition, 36,000 tourists on average visit the island every year.
sharing can increase the use of cars to several hours per day by Originally, about 1,500 internal combustion engine vehicles and
means of multiple users using a vehicle over the course of a day. one bus line with two diesel buses were providing mobility on the
Both solutions lead to more efficient mobility with fewer cars and island. Astypalea shall now be transformed into a smart and green
less need for parking space in towns and cities. island. To this end, the Volkswagen Group has joined forces with
the Hellenic Republic. Traffic on Astypalea will be gradually con-
verted to e-mobility. This includes the public transport system, local
authority vehicles (e.g., police) as well as companies and the private
vehicles of the inhabitants. At the same time, an extensive network
of private and public charging stations will be set up. Fully electric
vehicle sharing and ridesharing services have been furthermore
newly launched on the island. Unlike the previous bus system, the
new smart mobility services will operate the whole year and they will
cover all the hotspots on the island. E-cars, e-scooters and e-bikes
make up the vehicle sharing service. These services shall become
an alternative to privately owned vehicles and perspectively con-
tribute to a reduction of the vehicle fleet size by around a third to
approximately 1,000. Around 25,000 trips and 167,000 km in total
have been carried out with the ridesharing service ASTYBUS alone
in the first seven months since its implementation on the island
in June 2022. The energy system of Astypalea will also be gradually
converted to s olar and wind energy under the leadership of the
Hellenic Republic.
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT
STRATEGIC STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT
Our stakeholders are individuals, groups or organizations who
have a material influence on or are materially influenced by the way
in which the Group reaches its corporate decisions and the implica-
VOLKSWAGEN GROUP
STAKEHOLDERS
Media
Residents and Academics
local authorities and experts
CUSTOMERS
SUSTAIN- 1
Volkswagen WORKS
ABILITY
Group COUNCIL 2 3
COUNCIL
NGOs/non-profit Competitors
organizations
EMPLOYEES
SUPERVISORY
BOARD
Policymakers Business partners
and associations and suppliers
Investors
and analysts
For us, stakeholder management means interacting with the Com- Our brands and regions have their own stakeholder management
pany’s key stakeholder groups systematically and continuously as strategies. The Group’s task is to bring together and orchestrate these
part of the Group initiative with the focus topics of ESG performance, activities in an integrated framework. This framework includes:
decarbonization and integrity, which is part of the NEW AUTO Group
strategy. Our aim is open, constructive and also critical communica- • Stakeholder engagement on a Group level with specific commit-
tion with the stakeholder groups listed in the diagram about their tees, formats and a focus on stakeholders relevant across the Group
requirements and expectations of us, as well as central issues of our • Advising and coordinating the brands and regions on the imple-
Group strategy and its implementation. mentation of their stakeholder engagement activities
• Carrying out regular stakeholder analyses and stakeholder surveys
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
tions of those decisions. Our employees and customers are at the
center of our stakeholder network. In addition, we have identified
eight further groups. Continuous communication between internal
and external stakeholder groups is important to us. For this reason,
the Group’s supervisory and advisory bodies – i.e., the Supervisory
Board, the Works Council and the Sustainability Council – act as a
special interface between internal and external stakeholders.
Stakeholder management is one of the core processes of sustain- The Audi, Porsche and Volkswagen Passenger Cars brands are
ability management in the Group. Tasks, responsibilities and orga- consistently represented in the survey. The survey data are based on
nization are set out in the Group policy on sustainability personal telephone interviews conducted with representatives of
management. importance to the Volkswagen Group from the fields of politics and
associations, media, academia, NGOs, investors and analysts and
As an international business, our business activities impact the lives of also business partners in the three markets (Germany, China and
a large number of different people. Appropriately aligned stakeholder the USA). Fundamentally, representatives of the highest possible
management is essential so as to determine the sustainability decision-making level are surveyed in all the stakeholder groups.
strategy’s material areas for action and become aware of stakeholders’
expectations of us at an early stage. It also involves continuously in-
In Germany, the 2022 reputation
forming and regularly communicating with all business areas. This
communication not only helps us to identify our stakeholders’ re- KPI for the Volkswagen Group is
quirements, it also plays a key role in achieving corporate goals and
78%.
complying with reporting standards and legal requirements.
The transformation of the Volkswagen Group from a vehicle man-
ufacturer to a world-leading, software-driven mobility provider will
also change and expand the range of relevant stakeholder groups The Group obtained the following results in 2022: 78% of stake-
as a result of new areas of expertise such as autonomous driving, holders in Germany stated that they trust the Volkswagen Group
battery technology, charging infrastructure and energy services. (2021: 80%). In China the proportion was 98% (2021: 97%) and in
Here, too, we aspire to involve all our stakeholders in this transfor- the USA it was 70% (2021: 67%). In Germany, the reputation KPI
mation process and actively use their feedback for the sustainable thus decreased slightly compared with 2021, which, however, is in
development of our Group and society. Our aim is to position our line with the trend in results in the overall competitive environ-
Group robustly for the future amid ever faster and more strongly ment in Germany. In China and the USA, the reputation KPI contin-
changing economic, environmental and social framework condi- ued to steadily improve.
tions and sustainably improve its acceptance and reputation.
STAKEHOLDER PANEL AS A CRITICAL COMPANION
The Volkswagen Group is a player in numerous networks of experts
and decision-makers who have a significant influence on our In addition to the Sustainability Council, Volkswagen Group has
business and the agenda in the sociopolitical environment. An established a Stakeholder Panel, which has overseen the Group sus-
overview of the Group’s most important memberships is available tainability activities for over 20 years. The whole panel (Germany/
online. Austria/Switzerland, EU) currently comprises more than 200 institu-
tions and organizations. The pandemic meant that we had to inter-
www.volkswagenag.com > Sustainability > Strategy, rupt communication with our stakeholders in 2020 and 2021. In the
Policy & Engagement > Engagement > Memberships reporting year, we were able to resume it on a smaller scale. The focus
was on the topics of decarbonization and sustainability in the sup-
ply chain. Accompanied by members of the Sustainability Council,
REPUTATION KPI MEASURES STAKEHOLDER TRUST an open and controversial discussion was held in April with NGOs
and was also held in September as part of a larger stakeholder dialog.
The reputation key performance indicator (KPI) makes a decisive The key drivers of the discussion were the speed of electrification
contribution to anchoring stakeholder management in the sustain- and the challenges of controlling supply chains. The plan for 2023 is
ability strategy. The indicator reflects the degree to which external to intensify communication with our stakeholders, and to extend
stakeholders trust the Volkswagen Group. Since 2017, we have asked and deepen its content.
annually for an assessment of the Volkswagen Group’s reputation.
Eliciting this KPI enables a holistic view of attitudes and opinions on
the Group and allows us to identify whether and how evaluations
change over the course of time.
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
our innovative power in order to reduce our environmental foot-
MANAGEMENT print – over the entire life cycle of our products and mobility solu-
tions. Our innovations are at the same time intended to help our
customers to be more environmentally friendly.
COMMITMENT TO AN UNDAMAGED ENVIRONMENT
THE “GOTOZERO” MISSION STATEMENT: MINIMIZATION OF
As one of the largest automotive manufacturers in the world, we NEGATIVE EFFECTS ON THE ENVIRONMENT
have to observe extensive legal requirements for all sites and mar-
kets and aim to live up to our internal and external stakeholders’ The “goTOzero” environmental mission statement serves as the
high expectations of the effectiveness of environmental compliance framework for all the Volkswagen Group’s environmental activities.
management – including, and especially following, the diesel issue. This mission statement commits us to the vision of a carbon-neutral
We also want to live up to our voluntary commitments on envi- way of doing business with minimal environmental impact that we
ronmental matters and compliant behavior. The environmental want to achieve by 2050 at the latest. We want to be a world-leading
compliance management system is therefore in particular a risk provider of sustainable mobility and a role model for environmen-
provision against breaches of regulations that may be associated tal protection. To this end, we are systematically and verifiably
with damage to the environment, our Group and society. Our envi- reducing the environmental impact along the life cycle of our prod-
ronmental compliance management system helps us to continu- ucts and services. Compliance with environmental regulations,
ously improve our environmental performance and reduce our standards and voluntary commitments is a basic prerequisite of our
environmental impact. actions. The Group mission statement combines all strategic and
compliance-related aspects of the Group’s environmental activities
One of the focuses of the NEW AUTO Group strategy is the Group’s and forms the basis for linking targets, key performance indicators,
ESG performance. In environmental protection, decarbonization programs and measures. The mission statement is continuously re-
and circular economy are the focus issues. These are also core ele- viewed and its objectives adjusted to new requirements and changes
ments of the “goTOzero” Group environmental mission statement. in conditions. The mission statement, which has been revised in the
At the same time, the environmental compatibility of our products, current reporting year, puts the Group’s focus on the four fields for
services and processes is one of our Group Essentials. With elec- action presented in the diagram below and their underlying
tric drives, digital connectivity and autonomous driving, we want objectives.
to make the car cleaner, more intelligent, quieter and safer. We use
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
“GOTOZERO” ENVIRONMENTAL MISSION STATEMENT: ACTION AREAS
Protecting Conserving Conserving Ensuring
THE CLIMATE RESOURCES ECOSYSTEMS ENVIRONMENTAL
COMPLIANCE
We are committed to the Paris We reduce the volumes of prima- We reduce harmful emissions in Where integrity and compliance
Climate Agreement and aim for ry raw materials needed by using air, soil and water. are concerned, we aim to be a
an ambition level of 1.5 degrees recycled material and renewable We mitigate the impact of our role model for a modern, trans-
celsius. raw materials. business operations on biodiver- parent, successful enterprise.
We systematically focus on the We maximize our energy and sity and ecosystem performance We use effective environmental
electrification of our products, resource efficiency and establish and support projects to conserve compliance management systems
decarbonization of our entire closed loops for materials and these. to identify and manage environ-
value chain and expansion of water. mental risks and opportunities
renewable energy generation to Together with our business part- throughout the lifetime of our
supply our sites and customers. ners we cut down on the amount mobility solutions.
We want to be a net-carbon- of natural resources utilized We conduct open dialog with
neutral company by 2050 at the throughout our supply chain. our stakeholders and incorporate
latest. their expectations into our
decisions.
MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE IN MATTERS OF THE business operations. We consider disregard of environmental obli-
ENVIRONMENT gations, fraud or misconduct to be serious compliance breaches
and prosecute these. To what extent our actions conform to the re-
The Volkswagen Group has created an environmental policy that quirements of our environmental policy and other environment-
calls on managers and the workforce to implement environmental related Group specifications is evaluated annually and reported to the
goals with joint responsibility. In its environmental policy, the Group Board of Management, to the respective boards of manage-
Group commits to reducing the environmental impacts across the ment of the brands and to the managing directors of the companies.
entire life cycle of the processes, products and services, to meet
binding obligations and continuously improve its environmental The Group Board of Management is the highest internal decision-
compliance management system and environmental making level for environmental matters. Both the Volkswagen AG
performance. Board of Management and the boards of management of the brands
take account not just of economic, but also social and environ-
We have also implemented a Group policy for the environmental mental aspects when making relevant business decisions. The
compliance management system describing requirements, tasks Group-wide management of environmental protection, including
and responsibilities with regard to the environment and compliance. implementing the resource-efficiency programs and monitoring
This policy provides the framework for implementing environmental target achievement, is the responsibility of the Group Steering Com-
compliance management systems across all phases of the business mittee for the Environment and Energy. It is the highest environ-
and the entire life cycle of vehicles in our brands and companies. mental committee in the Volkswagen Group and is responsible for
The policy defines the minimum requirements for operating orga- reporting to the Group Board of Management or the environmen-
nizations regarding implementing an environmental compliance tal officer in the Group Board of Management. The Group Steering
management system and gives them the flexibility to implement Committee for Fleet Compliance manages important individual
this in a manner in line with their business activities. aspects for our products – such as CO2 and exhaust emissions.
In general, all production and development sites in the Group are The Volkswagen Group coordinates the activities of the brands,
required to have their environmental management systems certified which in turn manage measures in the individual regions. The
to ISO 14001 or validated to the Eco-Management and Audit brands and companies are organizationally responsible for them-
Scheme (EMAS). Good progress has been made as regards external selves when it comes to environmental matters. They base their
certification. In 2022, 105 of our 119 sites, including central devel- own environmental protection activities on the targets, guidelines
opment units, have ISO 14001 certification or EMAS validation. In and principles that apply throughout the Group. In order to prove
terms of employee numbers, this equates to more than 98%. In that we have achieved our targets, we disclose environmental key
addition, 61 of the production sites have certified their energy performance indicators annually and report transparently on
management systems in accordance with ISO 50001, meaning 80% the progress on the environmental performance by the Group and
of the total energy consumption of the Group’s production sites is the brands.
currently covered by a certified energy management system. SEAT
development is also certified in accordance with ISO 14006. Checking and Complying with Limits
In internal combustion engines, we adhere to national and interna-
These standards do not, however, answer the question of how to tional legal norms and limits. For example, the Euro 6d-ISC-FCM
avoid misconduct and how to respond appropriately to it. The emissions standard has been obligatory for new registrations in the
Volkswagen Group has therefore expanded the established environ- European Union since January 1, 2021. In addition to the use of
mental management systems to include important compliance the Worldwide Harmonized Light Vehicles Test Procedure (WLTP),
aspects. The intention of our environmental compliance manage- it also requires measurement in accordance with the RDE (= Real
ment systems is to ensure that environmental aspects and obliga- Driving Emissions) standard. Unlike with WLTP, emissions are not
tions are recognized and appropriately taken into account in our measured on a test bench – they are measured in actual road traffic.
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
LIFE CYCLE APPROACH DETERMINES ANALYSIS AND ACTIONS REDUCTION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF PRODUCTION
(UEP)
We consider the environmental impact we cause throughout the
entire life cycle and at all stages of the value chain of our products. In connection with the production strategy, we have defined the
This includes the manufacturing process with the associated ex- KPI of the reduction in environmental impact in production (UEP)
traction of raw materials, the production of materials, the processes and underpinned it with targets for the Group and its brands. By 2025,
at our suppliers and our own production operations at our sites, the the production-related environmental impact at all sites where we
use phase with the resulting vehicle emissions and the necessary produce passenger cars and light commercial vehicles is to be re-
supply of charging current and fuel, and ultimately the recycling of duced by 45% per vehicle compared to 2010. The figures below
the vehicle at the end of its life cycle. For detailed, ISO-standardized show the development from 2010 to 2022 (data: 11+1 months):1
life cycle assessments (LCA), we use Sphera’s GaBi software with the
LCA database LEAD (Life Cycle Environmental Assessment Data-
UEP: –37.4%²
base), which is based on Sphera’s Professional Database. This en-
ables the exchange of harmonized data throughout the Group and
a standardized basis for calculating our environmental perfor-
(2021: –29.1%)
mance. In the next step, we identify hot spots in the life cycle and
deduce suitable solutions to reduce the environmental impact. In
line with our life cycle approach, we involve our suppliers in our In the reporting year, the five indicators of the UEP KPI were as
efforts to minimize our environmental impact early on. follows:
Decarbonization • Energy requirements per vehicle: –14.1% (2021: –3.4%)
• CO2 emissions per vehicle: –43.1% (2021: –33.5%)
For example, for the life cycle analysis of the ID.3, in terms of impact • Water consumption per vehicle: –17.4% (2021: –11.6%)
categories we particularly consider the climate effect. CO2 and all • Waste for disposal per vehicle: –68.5% (2021: –61.7%)³
other emissions relevant to the climate are recorded here and con- • VOC emissions per vehicle: –65.9% (2021: –62.0%)
verted into CO2 equivalents. Here, Volkswagen AG commissioned
TÜV NORD CERT Umweltgutachter GmbH as an independent exter- In 2022, the production situation remained strained due to supply
nal body to carry out the review of our own life cycle assessment chain disruptions on global markets and a structural shortage of
study in accordance with the applicable standards DIN EN ISO 14040 semiconductors. Compared with the previous year, production
and DIN EN ISO 14044. In accordance with the standard, the entire volume nevertheless increased. Successfully implemented measures
life cycle of the Golf 8 and the ID.3 were used as the framework: from to further reduce the adverse environmental impact of our factories
the manufacturing phase starting with raw material extraction, as well as the more stable utilization of production sites’ capacity
through the use phase of 200,000 km for passenger transportation in had a positive impact on the specific environmental KPIs per vehicle.
the WLTP driving cycle to recycling. These studies show that a The UEP improved significantly overall from –29.1% to –37.4%.
battery-electric vehicle operated with the European electricity mix
already has a global warming potential over its life cycle that is
about a quarter lower than a comparable gasoline vehicle. Similar
life cycle analyses for the ID.4 and Tiguan confirm these results.
If a battery-electric vehicle is operated with renewable energy, its
global warming potential is more than 60% lower than the global
warming potential of a comparable gasoline vehicle.
www.volkswagenag.com > Group > Carbon Footprint of the
Electric Vehicle
1 The figures for December of the reporting year include an estimate. The estimated figures for the prior year were replaced in the current data collection.
2 Scope: Passenger Cars and Light Commercial Vehicles division.
³ Scope: Waste for disposal includes only production-specific volumes.
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
ANCHORING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION IN In the 2022 reporting year, we achieved an important milestone on
MANUFACTURING: ZERO IMPACT FACTORY the way to the Zero Impact Factory. The Production Group Committee
confirmed the visionary aim of “Zero Impact” for 2050 as well as the
We are planning the production of tomorrow with our one.PRO- measurement methods and management tools developed for this.
DUCTION Group production strategy. Emissions levels and the use of The aim is to record and reduce the absolute environmental impact,
resources at Volkswagen Group locations require particular attention. particularly in the areas for action of climate protection and energy,
The “goTOzero – Zero Impact Factory” program is developing spe- emissions, water and waste. However, the focus will also be on
cific steps for more sustainable production. It is guided by the vision qualitative aspects such as the appearance of the factory, commit-
of creating a factory that has no adverse environmental impact. ment to biodiversity, protection of soil, avoidance of operational
disruptions, functioning environmental compliance management, verted into impact points. This makes the absolute environmental
improvement of resource efficiency towards a circular economy, impacts comparable with one another and means we can im-
and environmentally neutral mobility management for employee plement reduction measures targeted precisely at the areas where
and goods transport. greatest impact can be achieved.
• We use the site checklist to continuously review the implementa-
From 2023, as part of an internal test phase, we will start collecting tion status of 143 predefined environmental criteria that cannot
the following data and information at all sites where we produce be easily quantified. Examples of this include specific projects for
passenger cars and light commercial vehicles: retaining biodiversity, creating conditions for environmentally
friendly employee mobility or measures for promoting the circular
• 22 quantitative environmental indicators (for example, CO2 emis- economy.
sions, solvent emissions, freshwater requirements, wastewater
loads or different types of waste) are measured locally and con-
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
REDUCTION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACT OF PRODUCTION (UEP)
25%
2010–2018
NOITCETORP
LATNEMNORIVNE
DNA
NOITCA
ETAMILC
ZERO IMPACT FACTORY –
ENVIRONMENTAL TRANSFORMATION OF GROUP PRODUCTION
REDUCTION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACT OF PRODUCTION (UEP)
global local
45%
2010–2025
ZERO IMPACT FACTORY (ZIF)
Strategic reduction of the environmental
impact of production in absolute terms
Strategic reduction of
resources and emissions
2010 2018 2022 2025 2050
From 2025, the Zero Impact Factory method will replace the exist- With a view to the CBD and the Conference of the Parties (COP 15),
ing KPI system measuring the UEP. This represents a shift away from the areas for action in the reporting year were updated and extended
steering based on purely performance-based indicators to a reduc- and published in the Volkswagen Group’s Biodiversity Commitment.
tion in the environmental impact of our production processes in This highlights our commitment to protecting and preserving
absolute terms. Our goal is to achieve zero-impact status for all of our biodiversity.
manufacturing plants for passenger cars and light commercial ve-
hicles by 2050. www.volkswagenag.com > Sustainability >
Strategy, Policy & Engagement > Biodiversity Commitment
Group-wide Communication and Dialog on Environmental Issues
We also held the environmental weeks – “goTOzero weeks” – in many Furthermore, we support CBD’s Action Agenda for Nature and People
brand and regions in the current reporting year. The aim of the initiative by publishing our commitment on the CBD page of the
Group-wide campaign was to exchange knowledge and facilitate German Business for Biodiversity platform set up by the German
employee networking in the Volkswagen Group so as to advance Federal Ministry for the Environment.
environmental protection activities across the Group. The program
included participatory events, talks by experts, and many digital work- In addition to supporting conservation projects around the world,
shops and information programs on the topics of decarbonization, we have set ourselves the target of increasing biodiversity at our pro-
energy, environmental compliance, biodiversity, water, waste and duction sites as well. Local measures include creating wildflower
circular economy. meadows, planting trees and shrubs and installing nesting aids for
bats, birds and insects. In order to increase biodiversity at the pro-
We have been presenting the Zero Impact Factory Award to recog- duction sites, we have developed an internal assessment tool. The
nize particularly innovative environmental projects and increase tool assesses both direct measures to increase biodiversity at the
awareness of the Zero Impact Factory initiative since 2021. In the site and also indirect measures, such as integrating biodiversity into
first year, the focus was on measures with measurable success in the strategy or communication. The comparison of measures with
the areas of avoiding plastic and recycling. In the current year, the the tool also gives brands a basis for making decisions on the im-
sites are being asked to contribute the best measures for saving plementation of projects. Another step is introducing a biodiversity
water to the competition. KPI at site and brand level to allow us to track the development of
biodiversity at our production sites. Examples of the conservation
Furthermore, we record environmental measures in the IT-supported projects we support around the world can be found on our website.
“Massnahmen@web” system, thus encouraging the Group-wide ex-
change of best practices. In the reporting year, 1,431 implemented www.volkswagenag.com > Sustainability >
measures relating to the environment and energy were documented. Strategy, Policy & Engagement > Engagement
They are aimed at improving infrastructure and production pro-
cesses for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. We use the environmental compliance management system to
regularly check the effectiveness of biodiversity measures. Another
COMMITMENT TO BIODIVERSITY component of our commitment is raising employees’ awareness
by informing and training them on the topic of biodiversity and in-
The manufacture and operation of our vehicles impacts biodiversity volving them in the projects.
through immissions, land use and transportation – from raw
material extraction through the use phase to recycling. Volkswagen
is aware of its responsibility and has been involved in protecting and
retaining biological diversity through conservation projects since
2007. As a founding member of the Biodiversity in Good Company e. V.
initiative, we acknowledge the three goals of the international
Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). Moreover, we have defined
corresponding action areas to make our contribution to achieving
these goals within the framework of our business activities. This is
documented every two years in our progress report on the initiative.
Business and Biodiversity > Volkswagen AG Progress Report
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT KPIS1
KPI Unit 2022 2021 Notes and comments
“Massnahmen@web” measures implemented
Volkswagen Group number 1,431 1,544
of which Volkswagen AG number 466 467
Sites certified pursuant to ISO 14001 or with EMAS validation
Volkswagen Group number 105 110
in relation to number of employees in % 98.3 99.6 Based on all production sites across
the Group
Volkswagen AG number 6 6
in relation to number of employees in % 100 100
Sites certified pursuant to ISO 50001
Volkswagen Group number 61 65
based on the production sites’ total in % 80 – Recorded for the first time in the
energy consumption 2022 reporting year
Volkswagen AG number 6 6
based on the production sites’ total in % 100 – Recorded for the first time in the
energy consumption 2022 reporting year
Reduction of the environmental impact of production (UEP)
Volkswagen Group Passenger cars and light commercial
vehicles
Change in overall environmental impact of in % –37.4 –29.1
production (UEP)
Change in specific energy requirements in % –14.1 –3.4
Change in specific CO₂ emissions in % –43.1 –33.5
Change in specific VOC emissions in % –65.9 –62.0
Change in specific water consumption in % –17.4 –11.6
Change in specific waste for disposal in % –68.5 –61.7 Only production-specific volumes
Volkswagen AG
Change in overall environmental impact of in % –2.3 8.4
production (UEP)
Change in specific energy requirements in % 6.5 20.5
Change in specific CO₂ emissions in % 3.6 19.9
Change in specific VOC emissions in % –14.5 –18.8
Change in specific water consumption in % 11.4 19.0
Change in specific waste for disposal in % –37.0 –28.6 Only production-specific volumes
Total energy consumption
Volkswagen Group (absolute) in million MWh/year 21.01 22.02
of which Volkswagen AG in million MWh/year 4.39 4.76
Volkswagen Group (specific) in kWh/vehicle 2,163 2,433 Passenger cars and light commercial
vehicles
in Volkswagen AG in kWh/vehicle 6,391 7,231
1 Scope: The following sites are not included in the Group assessment in the reporting year: the four Scania Service Centers (Johannesburg, Narasapura, Kuala Lumpur, Taoyuan City);
two MAN Truck & Bus sites (Serendah, St. Petersburg); one site in China (Suzhou) and four other sites currently still under construction in China (a vehicle plant in Hefei, a vehicle plant
in Changchun and two other component plants in Hefei with planned production start in 2023/2024). The figures for December of the reporting year include an estimate. The estimated
figures for the prior year were replaced in the current data collection.
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
KPI Unit 2022 2021 Notes and comments
Electricity
Volkswagen Group (absolute) in million MWh/year 11.08 11.08
of which passenger cars and light commercial vehicles in million MWh/year 9.73 9.91
of which Volkswagen AG in million MWh/year 2.04 2.04
of which other divisions in million MWh/year 1.35 1.17
Proportion of electricity in total energy consumption, Volk- in % 52.7 50.3
swagen Group
in Volkswagen AG in % 46.4 42.8
Heat
Volkswagen Group (absolute) in million MWh/year 5.73 6.65
of which passenger cars and light commercial vehicles in million MWh/year 4.98 5.89
of which Volkswagen AG in million MWh/year 1.55 1.88
of which other divisions in million MWh/year 0.75 0.76
VOC emissions
Volkswagen Group (absolute) in metric tons/year 13,364 13,502
of which passenger cars and light commercial vehicles in metric tons/year 11,849 12,525
of which Volkswagen AG in metric tons/year 1,188 1,069
of which other divisions in metric tons/year 1,515 977
Volkswagen Group (specific) in kg/vehicle 1.41 1.57 Passenger cars and light commercial
vehicles
in Volkswagen AG in kg/vehicle 1.78 1.69
Freshwater
Volkswagen Group (absolute) in million m³/year 39.34 39.71
of which passenger cars and light commercial vehicles in million m³/year 31.57 32.07
of which Volkswagen AG in million m³/year 3.56 3.60
of which other divisions in million m³/year 7.78 7.64
Volkswagen Group (specific) in m³/vehicle 3.75 4.02 Passenger cars and light commercial
vehicles
in Volkswagen AG in m³/vehicle 5.34 5.70
Waste for disposal Only production-specific volumes
Non-hazardous waste
Volkswagen Group (absolute) in metric tons/year 23,323 28,333
of which passenger cars and light in metric tons/year 17,639 25,051
commercial vehicles
of which Volkswagen AG in metric tons/year 1,373 1,439
of which other divisions in metric tons/year 5,684 3,283
Volkswagen Group (specific) in kg/vehicle 2.10 3.14 Passenger cars and light commercial
vehicles
in Volkswagen AG in kg/vehicle 2.06 2.28
Hazardous waste
Volkswagen Group (absolute) in metric tons/year 56,970 54,102
of which passenger cars and light in metric tons/year 44,089 46,244
commercial vehicles
of which Volkswagen AG in metric tons/year 7,726 8,335
of which other divisions in metric tons/year 12,882 7,857
Volkswagen Group (specific) in kg/vehicle 5.24 5.79 Passenger cars and light commercial
vehicles
in Volkswagen AG in kg/vehicle 11.59 13.20
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
RISK MANAGEMENT
the planning in a timely manner. Material risks are reported to the
relevant committees on an ad-hoc basis. The results of the operational
RISK MANAGEMENT AS AN EARLY WARNING SYSTEM risk management process are incorporated into budget planning
and financial control on an ongoing b asis. The targets agreed in the
Promptly identifying the risks and opportunities arising from our budget planning rounds are continually reviewed in revolving plan-
operating activities and taking a forward-looking approach to ning updates. At the same time, the results of risk mitigation mea-
managing them is crucial to our Company’s long-term success. sures are promptly incorporated into the monthly forecasts regard-
A foresighted risk management process and effective internal ing further business development. This means that the Board of
control systems are therefore vitally important to us. Management also has access to an overall picture of the current
risk situation via the documented reporting channels during the
RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM year.
A comprehensive risk management and internal control system (RMS The second line is the Group risk management organization, which,
and ICS) helps us to handle risks responsibly. It defines the primary among other things, sets standards for the RMS/ICS, provides support
principles and elements of our Group, forming the basis for the to the divisions in the form of relevant training and coordinates
appropriate and effective management and control of material risks. the quarterly risk survey. It reports quarterly to the Group Board of
This applies to risks with consequences for the Volkswagen Group Management on any material risks, which are defined using quan-
and/or for the environment and society. It is thus also directly titative and qualitative assessment criteria and given probability
applicable to the assessment of nonfinancial risks. These could arise ratings. The additional annual governance, risk and compliance
when pursuing goals and implementing measures in our Group (GRC) control process, with a focus on internal control activities, will
strategy’s focus areas. be gradually replaced by a standardized ICS by 2025. In the stan-
dardized ICS, standardized control targets are now set for the key
ESG Performance Management and Materiality Analysis Group companies to cover process risks. The documented control
activities are regularly tested for their effectiveness and the ICS is
The organizational design of the Volkswagen Group’s RMS and ICS is thus improved.
based on the internationally recognized COSO Enterprise Risk
Management framework (COSO = Committee of Sponsoring Orga- The third line of defense is Group Internal Audit, which carries out
nizations of the Treadway Commission). Through a Group risk regular checks on the structure and implementation of the RMS
management policy, all business divisions and units are obliged to and ICS as part of its independent audit activities.
implement an RMS and ICS. The Board of Management receives
ad-hoc and quarterly risk reports. The Volkswagen Group continuously develops its risk management
in order to take account of constantly increasing internal and ex-
The focus of our RMS and ICS is the three lines model, which is de- ternal requirements in the field of corporate responsibility.
signed to protect us from the occurrence of material risks. The model
is a basic element required by, among others, the European Con- RISKS RELATING TO THE FOCUS ISSUES
federation of Institutes of Internal Auditing (ECIIA).
Risks relating to our focus issues are taken into account in both the
The first line comprises the operational risk management and in- methodology and the content of our RMS and ICS. The standardized
ternal control systems at the Group companies and business units. ICS uses master control catalogs. These contain standardized process
The RMS and ICS is an integral part of the Volkswagen Group’s risks and associated control targets as a specification for internal
structure and workflows. Incidents that could constitute a risk are controls to be carried out in the Group companies. Risks and require-
first identified and then assessed on the b asis of multiple criteria ments in relation to product or environmental compliance are ad-
with regard to the likelihood of occurrence, financial loss and reputa- dressed in various master control catalogs, e.g., for production. We
tional damage and the potential threat to adherence to external legal check whether the master control catalogs are up to date each year
requirements. Countermeasures are introduced, the remaining and adjust them if necessary. In the quarterly risk process, the risks
potential impact is assessed, and the information incorporated into are classified into risk clusters.
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
The focus areas are addressed in both the master control catalogs A more detailed description is available in the report on risks
in the standardized ICS and the risk clusters of the quarterly risk and o pportunities in the Annual Report under the heading “En-
process. For example, the content of the focus issue of decarboniza- vironmental Protection Regulations.” Further risks can arise
tion is taken into account in the environment and sustainability from the assertion of what are actually civil-law environmental
master control catalog via the risk that “the material environmen- policy objectives.
tal and sustainability risks of our products, production and ser-
vices along the entire life cycle are not/insufficiently identified.” In The Volkswagen Group produces CO2 emissions with its business
the compliance master control catalog, the risk that “compliance and products. We wish to make our contribution to limiting global
breaches and risks (whistleblower information) are not addressed or warming to well below two degrees Celsius in accordance with the
not sufficiently addressed or not promptly/correctly dealt with” Paris Agreement by making our entire Group net carbon neutral by
serves to take account of the focus issue of integrity. As part of the 2050. To this end, decarbonization has been firmly anchored as a
quarterly risk process, risk clusters involving environmental risks, focus area in the NEW AUTO Group strategy. More information on
emission risks, compliance risks or CO2 risks, or product-related the effects, targets and measures can be found in the Decarboniza-
risks, for example, that address these focus issues are specified. tion chapter.
Risks that could impact on our bottom line also include general en- Decarbonization
vironmental risks and climate-change risks. These include risks
that could result from different CO2 and emissions regulations, but In addition, no further material risks within the meaning of section
also extreme weather, storms or floods with effects on production, 289c (3) no. 4 of the German Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch –
infrastructure and supply chains. The risks relevant from the HGB) relating to the focus issues have been identified.
Volkswagen Group’s perspective are presented in the report on
risks and opportunities in the Group management report. In fiscal 2022 Annual Report > Group Management Report >
year 2022, risks continued to be identified with regard to compli- Report on Risks and Opportunities
ance with regulations on fleet CO2 emissions in individual brands
and markets that may result in charges for the Volkswagen Group.
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP
PARTNERSHIP WITH MICROSOFT FOR DIGITAL EDUCATION
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Volkswagen Group increasingly links sustainability with digi-
talization in its social engagement activities, relying on partner-
As a good corporate citizen, we aim to be a source of economic im- ships to do so. As part of a long-term collaboration with Microsoft
petus for local structural development and equal opportunities. We Germany, one of our focuses is on projects in digital education and
have always believed in the importance of recognizing our social training. This is intended to give people access to digital technology,
responsibilities towards our stakeholders. This aim is codified in our thus increasing participation in society and future opportunities.
Group People Strategy and particularly in the fourth dimension
“We@Volkswagen and the world around us” (aim: “aligned with During the reporting year, Volkswagen, Microsoft Germany and
society & environment”). We are continuing to systematically roll Autostadt appeared at the IdeenExpo in Hanover from July 2 to 10.
out this target. The main focus of our philanthropic activities is on At Europe’s largest youth fair for science and technology, everything
supporting future, environmental, educational and community revolved around mobility, digitalization and sustainability under the
projects at many of our sites across the world. motto of “Mach doch einfach!” (Simply do it!). Exhibits, workshops
and hands-on activities invited school students from the age of 11 to
We select specific projects and develop them on our own or in creatively engage with the topic of “mobility of the future.”
partnership with local partner organizations and NGOs. The follow-
ing applies here: EXTENSIVE PHILANTHROPIC CONTRIBUTIONS AROUND THE
WORLD
• The projects are in line with the Group Essentials and address a
specific issue of local relevance or a global challenge. We have also further systematized our activities in corporate giving
• They are an expression of diversity within the Group and the as the second important component of corporate citizenship. During
social environment in which the projects are carried out. the reporting year, we were active in the fields of the environment
• They are the result of close dialog with the local stakeholders and society through numerous projects worldwide. We provide dona-
involved in implementation. tions in cash and in kind to support activities and projects p rimarily
• Projects are managed locally under the responsibility of the devoted to education, culture, sports and social causes. Donations
competent units. may only be given to recognized non-profit organizations or ones
specifically endorsed to receive donations.
For example, in line with the strategic goal “We@Volkswagen and
the world around us,“ in 2022 Volkswagen AG created a pilot project
800
for volunteering by employees under the heading of “Volkswagen
Gemeinsam Engagiert” (Volkswagen Together Engaged). Charities Around
can post requests for volunteers on a digital matching platform. projects and initiatives
Active employees of the German Volkswagen plants and those in
around the world.
the passive phase of semi-retirement can then respond to the re-
quests. Volkswagen is thus making a positive contribution to society
and the environment at its locations and bringing people who are In the reporting period, Volkswagen AG made donations amounting
looking for help together with helpers in an uncomplicated way. to €27.6 million. In 2022, the brands and companies supported
around 800 projects and initiatives around the world. Information
In addition, the first volunteer day took place across locations at on the i ndividual topics and projects can be found on our website:
Volkswagen AG in September 2022. Employees supported local
organizations with, for example, maintaining habitats, sorting food www.volkswagenag.com > Sustainability > Strategy,
or renovation work. Policy & Engagement > Engagement > CC Projects Worldwide
Information on other social engagement activities can be found on
our website:
www.volkswagenag.com > Sustainability > Strategy, Policy &
Engagement > Engagement
AND
S’PUORG
EHT
NI
YTILIBANIATSUS
DECARBONIZATION
PARTICULAR RESPONSIBILITY REQUIRES We report along the four requirement categories that companies
PARTICULAR COMMITMENT should take into account in the reporting according to the TCFD:
governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets.
Climate change and its consequences are threats to our planet and can
already be felt in many places today. According to the Intergovern- MANAGEMENT OF GROUP-WIDE CLIMATE PROTECTION MEASURES
mental Panel on Climate Change’s calculations, the transport and
mobility sector currently accounts for around 23% of global energy- The Volkswagen Group has established Group-wide sustainability
related greenhouse gas emissions. As one of the world’s largest auto- management. The related structures, processes and responsibilities
motive manufacturers and mobility providers, Volkswagen is aware are codified in a specific Group policy. The highest decision-making
of the responsibility this entails. We are committed to the Paris body for sustainability-related topics is the Group Board of Man-
Climate Agreement, which aims to keep the increase in global tem- agement. The Chairman of the Group Board of Management has
perature by 2050 to well below two degrees Celsius. Volkswagen wants cross-functional overall responsibility for sustainability. The Group
to become a net carbon-neutral company by 2050. We have set an Steering Committee for Sustainability bears the main responsibility
intermediate goal for ourselves along the way: by 2030, Volkswagen for climate protection along the value chain as the highest body
wants to reduce the carbon footprint of its passenger cars and light below the Board of Management. Product and portfolio topics are
commercial vehicles by 30% per vehicle (compared with 2018). We managed by the Group Steering Committee for Fleet Compliance.
want to achieve this goal purely through reduction measures and Both Group steering committees inform the Group Board of Manage-
switching to renewable energies – i.e., without any offset measures. ment at least twice a year on topics such as corporate responsibility
In addition to the Group’s electric offensive, we are concentrating and sustainability (Group Steering Committee for Sustainability) and
to a greater extent on integrating renewably generated electricity product-related greenhouse gas emissions (Group Steering Com-
in the use phase and switching the entire power supply for our mittee for Fleet Compliance).
plants to renewable energy.
Clear Responsibilities
For Volkswagen, climate-related topics have an important strategic The CEO of the Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand regularly informs
and operative significance – e.g., with respect to regulatory require- the Group Board of Management on sustainability, environmental
ments and the corresponding performance of our products and and energy-related topics. The member of the Board of Management
also our Group’s ongoing transformation process. For example, the is responsible for all environmental activities, including activities
Group plans to invest around €89 billion in cutting-edge areas such connected with climate-friendly mobility. The Group-wide man-
as hybridization, electric mobility and digitalization by 2026. This agement of environmental protection is the responsibility of the
equates to around 55% of capital expenditure and all the Group’s CEO of the Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand and of the Group
research and development costs in the planning period. €52 billion Steering Committee for the Environment and Energy, which is sup-
alone is earmarked for investment in electric mobility. ported by numerous specialist bodies. You can find further informa-
tion on responsibilities and management in the Environmental
Decarbonization of the Group’s business activities occupies a key Compliance Management chapter.
position in the NEW AUTO Group strategy and is one of six focus topics
in the ESG, decarbonization and integrity Group initiative. The com- Environmental Compliance Management
mitment to climate protection is also a core part of our “goTOzero”
environmental mission statement, which stands for a net carbon- Volkswagen’s Group Head of Environment provides reports to the
neutral way of doing business. In the reporting year, the environ- Group Board of Management on environment- and energy-related
mental mission statement was updated and the importance of de- topics in their capacity as Head of the Group Steering Committee for
carbonizing the Group’s business activities was again underlined. the Environment and Energy. The Division Head of the Group Strate-
You can find further information on our environmental mission gy and General Secretariat provides reports to the Chairman of the
statement in the Environmental Compliance Management chapter. Group Board of Management in their capacity as Head of the Group
Steering Committee for Sustainability and regularly informs the
Environmental Compliance Management Group Board of Management on sustainability- and environment-
related topics. The positions described have the task of coordinating
Reporting According to TCFD Recommendations and managing the sustainability, environmental and CO2 activities
This year too, the chapter on decarbonization is based on the guide- decided by the Group Board of Management.
lines of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD),
which was set up by the G20’s Financial Stability Board. These guide- Climate-related topics are coordinated and managed by regular
lines create a coherent framework for voluntary and consistent re- meetings of the Group steering committees and by continuous
porting of entities’ climate-related financial risks and opportunities. communication with the heads of the Group’s and the brands’ various
NOITAZINOBRACED
research and development units and other Group functions. Carbon pricing
Internal and external stakeholder engagement also play an impor- Volkswagen supports ambitious carbon pricing, as this pro-
tant role in this context. For example, we use the feedback from motes the transformation to climate-friendly electric mobility
regular shareholder dialogs to review our strategies and approach- in line with Group strategy. An increasingly effective carbon
es and adjust them where necessary. The Group Board of Manage- price, particularly in Europe, may, however, also lead to addi-
ment regularly consults with Volkswagen’s Sustainability Council tional costs in energy and material consumption. The Group is
on climate protection. countering this risk by switching its energy supply to renewable
energies in the long term and integrating corresponding quotas
Stakeholder Management for the use of renewably generated electricity in supplier-side
procurement requirements.
Sustainability Management
Climate-related lawsuits
Decarbonization Progress Linked with Board of Management Requirements for greater climate-protection performance or in-
Remuneration complete disclosures on the impact of climate change may po-
The decarbonization index is the core key indicator in the Group tentially result in lawsuits for companies. The Group counters
related to climate protection and serves as a measurement tool for this risk firstly through certification of its self-imposed decar-
the CO2 emissions of the brands of the EU27+3, China and US regions bonization targets by independent and internationally recog-
that manufacture passenger cars and light commercial vehicles over nized organizations and secondly through consistently aligning
the entire life cycle. The Volkswagen Group has linked the remuner- its nonfinancial reporting with legal and capital-market re-
ation of the members of its Board of Management to, among other quirements.
things, the development of the decarbonization index to create
additional incentives here. The Volkswagen Group’s Remuneration b. Technology
Report provides further information on how key sustainability
criteria are taken into account in the Board of Management’s remu- Increasing model diversity
neration. The increasing diversity of models as part of the electric offen-
sive and shorter product life cycles translate to a global increase
THE VOLKSWAGEN GROUP’S CLIMATE-RELATED RISK AND in vehicle launches. The technical systems and processes in-
OPPORTUNITY ANALYSIS volved are complex, which means there is a risk that vehicle
launches may be delayed. The Group counters this risk by iden-
The Group identifies both risks resulting from climate change tifying weak points in product creation early and on the basis
(physical risks) and risks and opportunities due to the shift toward a of experience, with the aim of protecting vehicle launches in
decarbonized economy (transitional risks and opportunities), which respect of quantity, quality and timing.
are addressed by the internal control system’s master control catalogs
and the risk management system’s risk clusters. They are not only Stranded assets
identified but also assessed and handled in accordance with the Production capacity and technical equipment that are limited
procedures explained in the Risk Management chapter. to the manufacture of high-emission products run the risk of
losing value and becoming “stranded assets” during the transi-
Risk Management tion to a low-carbon way of doing business. The Group counters
this risk by focusing its investment program on capacity that
The following analysis shows an excerpt from the internal assess- serves the transformation of the Group to a leading provider of
ment of significant risks and opportunities. sustainable mobility.
I. Transitional risks c. Market
a. Politics & law Emission-based vehicle taxation
Potential increases in vehicle taxes based on CO2 emissions –
Emissions standards as is already the case in many European countries – may lead to
Compliance with fleet and exhaust-emission limits can be demand shifting in favor of smaller segments and engines and
technically challenging and require financial investment. have an adverse financial impact for the Group. The Group
Breaches of limits may also result in financial penalties. The counters this risk by constantly developing new and fuel-
Volkswagen Group closely coordinates technology and product efficient vehicles and alternative drive technologies. The electri-
planning with its brands so as to implement both existing and fication of the portfolio and the Group’s drive and fuel strategy
increasing legal requirements and to avoid breaches of limits. form the basis for this.
NOITAZINOBRACED
Availability of renewable energies supply routes. The Group counters this risk by assessing the
The transition to a low-emission way of doing business is lead- climate- related vulnerability of production sites and deriving
ing to market participants switching their energy supply to appropriate countermeasures using environmental analyses.
non- fossil sources and a concentration of demand for renew-
able energies. Excess demand for electricity from non-fossil Rising sea levels
sources potentially arising from this may result in higher mar- The rise in sea levels may be accompanied by flooding of low-
ket prices and consequently additional cost for the Group and lying coastal areas and increased threat by storm surges in
also threaten the achievement of its decarbonization targets if coastal areas, particularly if these are not well enough protected.
the quantities required for achieving the targets cannot be pro- The Group’s production sites near to the coast run the risk of
vided by suppliers. The Group counters this risk with targeted being affected by business interruptions with increasing prob-
support for the construction of additional generation capacity ability and frequency, and consequently of being impacted by
for electricity from renewable sources and entering into long- climate-related losses in value creation. The Group counters
term contracts for existing resources. this risk through systematic analyses of the impact of climate
change on its production sites in order to assess potential risks
d. Reputation and derive recommendations for countermeasures.
Reporting & communication III. Opportunities
Critical media reports or defensive communication by the Group
in relation to its CO2 emissions, reduction targets and the de- a. Products
carbonization strategy might lead to reputational damage and,
as a consequence, to reductions in the demand for the Group’s Sales potential
products. The Group counters the risk through regular com- The transformation of transportation and the associated tran-
munication of its carbon footprint, emission reduction targets, sition to lower-emission and electric mobility open up new
and electrification and decarbonization strategies in the annual sales potential for fuel-efficient vehicles, electric vehicles and
and sustainability reports and in its stakeholder management. In other alternative drives. The Volkswagen Group is laying the
addition, the Group promotes the credibility of communica- groundwork to open up the sales potential of the transforma-
tion content of this nature through quality assurance measures tion of transportation with its brands based on coordinated
as part of internal auditing of the Group and through embed- technology and product planning and the associated electric
ding its decarbonization targets and management systems. offensive.
II. Physical risks b. Efficiency
a. Acute Cost savings
Decarbonization measures can go hand in hand with tapping
Extreme weather events efficiency potential. These include, for example, measures for
Extreme weather events in the form of floods, hurricanes and the more efficient LED lighting, modernized heat supply and cool-
like may cause disruptions of our own ability to operate or of the ing at the sites or also optimized washing and drying processes
supply of critical input factors such as semiconductors or battery in production. The Group identifies and taps such potential by
systems as key components of electrification, which may poten- systematically recording and assessing reduction measures to be
tially lead to production downtime that has a financial impact for implemented on the basis of various decision-making criteria
the Group. The Group counters risks caused by extreme weather as part of the decarbonization program. Furthermore, the
firstly through adapted business continuity management and Group has a tool that provides additional incentives for imple-
secondly through allocation strategies for distributing production - menting efficiency measures in the form of its CO2 fund.
critical input factors to the brands accompanied by a prioritiza-
tion of components and through the intensification of business c. Market
relationship management with suppliers.
Capital market performance
b. Chronic A positive performance on CO2 and reporting in line with
capital market requirements may positively impact rating
Water availability outcomes and the Group’s capital market conditions. ESG criteria
If the climate impacts water availability, this may lead to are therefore an integral component of the NEW AUTO Group
a need for site-related investments or cause added costs as a strategy with the aim of achieving sustainable improvements
result of any adjustment measures needed or alternative in capital market performance. Furthermore, the Group is
NOITAZINOBRACED
gearing its reporting even more systematically to capital market of the vehicle sector, the analysis shows that a significant reduction
requirements (e.g., TCFD). Volkswagen published its second Green in emission intensity per vehicle is needed to achieve the UN climate
Finance Report during the reporting year. The Green Finance goals, particularly in view of increasing unit sales. At the same
Framework systematically links our corporate objective of carbon time, the importance of electrification will grow considerably. In
neutrality by 2050 with our financing strategy. passenger cars and light commercial vehicles, combustion engines
will, however, retain half the market share through 2035 even in a
d. Resilience beyond 2 °C scenario (B2DS).
Climate-related adaptation measures We use the analysis results to make decisions regarding our sales
Implementing measures to adapt to the impact of climate change planning and materials production – e.g., through their integration
may strengthen the resilience of production sites – for example, into our DCI scenarios. The market- and product-related results
against extreme weather events but also against chronic effects support and affirm our decision reinforced by the NEW AUTO Group
such as the rise in sea levels – and thus prevent business inter- strategy to invest massively in electric mobility and in increasing
ruptions. For this reason, in a first step the Group conducted an the efficiency of the internal combustion powertrain.
analysis of physical climate risks for 31 EU-taxonomy-relevant
production locations, derived recommendations for imple- DECARBONIZATION PROGRAM TAKES ACCOUNT OF
menting specific adaptation measures based on this and sent THE ENTIRE LIFE CYCLE
these to the individuals in charge locally for validation.
To achieve the target of net carbon neutrality, the Volkswagen Group
Scenario Analysis as a Decision-Making Basis for Climate Protection is implementing a comprehensive decarbonization program, which
Volkswagen is a member of the Mobility Model (MoMo) working includes the whole life cycle of the vehicles and is characterized by
group of the International Energy Agency (IEA). The Group uses a clear hierarchy of measures: The top priority is measures with
model data and assumptions in a variety of contexts. MoMo uses which CO2 emissions can be avoided or reduced. In second place
IEA ETP (Energy Technology Perspectives) scenarios, including 2DS follow measures with which we can gradually shift the energy supply
(2 °C Scenario) and B2DS (Beyond 2 °C Scenario). We have concen- in all steps of the value chain to renewable energy. Finally, unavoid-
trated on the target year of 2030 here, which represents a milestone able CO2 emissions are offset in selected cases through climate
on the path to Group net carbon neutrality by 2050 and conse- protection projects that meet the highest international standards. One
quently acts as a reference for internal KPIs. example of this is the voluntary offsetting measures in the net
carbon- neutral delivery of electric vehicles.
The scenario analysis focuses on the areas of production, sales and
technology, the impact of products, and materials procurement.
With respect to production-related emissions and the development
NOITAZINOBRACED
PRIORITIZATION OF DECARBONIZATION MEASURES
1. AVOID
2. REDUCE
3. OFFSET
Effective and sustainable Switching to renewable Offset for residual emissions,
CO₂ avoidance, e.g. by energy energy sources in all steps of e.g. by investment in forest
efficiency the value chain protection and reforestation
No Decarbonization without E-Mobility to wheel”). E-vehicles and consistent charging with 100% renewably
Electric vehicles do not cause any local emissions during use – and generated electricity play a key role in achieving carbon-neutral
therefore have an advantage compared to cars with combustion e-mobility. This is the only way that almost half of all CO2 emissions
engines in terms of tailpipe emissions. The same applies to the entire can be avoided compared with the normal EU electricity mix. By
life cycle: Current calculations show that the carbon footprint of supplying energy from 100% renewable sources via our subsidiary
electric vehicles is already better on average in Europe in most Elli (Electric Life), we can offer our customers the option of net
markets than comparable gasoline or diesel vehicles. carbon- neutral mobility in the use phase too.
The consistent electrification of our vehicle fleet opens up the path Volkswagen Supports the Construction of Wind Farms and Solar Parks
to net carbon-neutral mobility for our customers. We plan to invest The Volkswagen Group is the first automotive manufacturer to di-
around €52 billion in electric mobility across the Group by 2026. rectly support the expansion of renewable energy on an industrial
The Volkswagen Group also once again increased the planned scale. New wind farms and solar parks are to be constructed in several
shares of electric vehicles in the core markets of the EU, the US and regions of Europe by 2025. In Germany, for example, Volkswagen
China for the target year of 2030 in the reporting year. The new supported the construction of a solar plant with a total capacity of
electric vehicles are manufactured at eight sites in Europe, China 170 million kWh per year. The plant in Tramm-Göthen in Mecklen-
and the US. The modular electric drive matrix (MEB) serves as the burg in northeastern Germany has nearly 420,000 solar modules
technical backbone of the e-offensive and is used in many more of and is thus the largest independent solar project in Germany. In
our electric models. From 2026, the e-offensive will be supplement- Sweden, Volkswagen Passenger Cars financially supported the con-
ed by the Scalable Systems Platform (SSP). struction of a wind farm: The park in the north of Sweden has a
volume of around 100 GWh per year. In the reporting year, new
2022 saw the market launch of additional e-models from various photovoltaic systems were also constructed with Volkswagen’s
brands, including the Audi Q5 e-tron in China, the Volkswagen ID.5 support: in Mosel, not far from the Zwickau vehicle plant, and in
and the ID. Buzz. Sagunto, Spain. The ŠKODA brand was also involved in the con-
struction of a wind farm in Finland in 2022. The wind farm is in-
Net Carbon-Neutral Use Phase Thanks to Renewable Energy tended to produce around 570 GWh of electricity per year – enough
It is important to us to make in particular the use phase of our to supply around 150,000 households with green power for a year.
vehicles net carbon neutral in the long-term. This is because around
75% of a car’s CO2 emissions arise in use (“well to tank” and “tank
NOITAZINOBRACED
DECARBONIZATION ALONG THE LIFE CYCLE
PRODUCTION USE END-OF-LIFE PHASE & OTHER
TAILPIPE
SUPPLY CHAIN IN-HOUSE FUEL SUPPLY EMISSIONS RECYCLING & OTHER
MAIN LEVERS
Green power;
New material concept
Battery Energy Customer offer of E-Strategy Recycling & 2nd-life Mobility solutions
efficiency green elecrity & fuel
Green power;
Closed looped recycling
Low carbon Renewable energy Increasing the share Efficient powertrain Promoting a Travel &
commodities supply of renewable energy low-c arbon commuting
sources in the grid retail network
It is planned that all projects together will generate around 7 TWh Battery Manufacturing: Reducing Emissions, Expanding Our
of additional green power by 2025. This should cover the electricity Own Capacities
needs of the electric vehicles brought to market and enable a net As well as reducing CO2 emissions in battery manufacturing, our
carbon-neutral use phase for the electric fleet. In addition, in the re- focus is on expanding our production capacity. For example,
porting year, the supply of around 1 TWh was contractually agreed Volkswagen Group Components has significantly expanded the
through entering into partnerships with electricity suppliers. production of battery systems for the latest generation of e-vehicles
at its Braunschweig plant in the last few years. In connection with a
Clear Requirements for Decarbonization in the Supply Chain second expansion step, the site will be able to install up to 500,000
We are aware that higher CO2 emissions will initially arise in the batteries for models based on the modular electric drive matrix
supply chain during the transition to electric mobility and shares (MEB) each year following complete ramp-up.
from the use phase are shifting to production. Against this back-
ground, we are systematically identifying the biggest drivers of The new unified battery cell for the volume segment is a component
CO2 emissions in the supply chain and defining measures to reduce of the MEB. It will roll off the production line at the gigafactory
them. The difficulty of raw material extraction and the energy- operated by Volkswagen Group Components in Salzgitter from 2025.
intensive processes in manufacturing batteries are key drivers here. The business division also operates a modern laboratory center for
Around a third of CO2 emissions that arise when manufacturing an cell research and development there.
electric car come from manufacturing high-voltage battery cells
(HV). All suppliers (new contract awards) of high-voltage batteries are In order to take a pioneering role on the key topic of battery cells,
already contractually obliged to use certified power from renewable we are also making targeted investments in further production ca-
sources in their production processes. In addition, there are further pacity outside Germany: By 2030, the Volkswagen Group wants to
requirements for upstream stages of the value chain, such as the operate six battery factories with a production output of 240 GWh
CO2 limits explained in the following paragraph. CO2 emissions in in Europe together with partners and in this way guarantee supply
battery manufacturing are therefore falling. More information on security. Each of the factories will operate solely on renewable
decarbonization measures in the upstream levels of the value chain power and will be designed for future closed-loop recycling. You
can be found in the Supply Chain and Human Rights chapter. can find further information on the battery raw materials cycle in
the Circular Economy chapter.
Supply Chain and Human Rights
Circular Economy
For new vehicle projects, the Volkswagen Group is going to make
CO2 emissions a technical feature for relevant components in the In Spain, the Volkswagen Group and SEAT S.A. mobilized €10 billion
future. This means that we will set binding CO2 targets for suppliers, for the electrification of the country in the reporting year. The con-
and they must be able to prove compliance with these at all times. struction of a first battery gigafactory, which will be supplied with
One example concerns the new mechatronics platform Scalable Sys- renewable energy from a new photovoltaic plant, is scheduled to
tems Platform (SSP). For example, the SSP platform’s batteries have begin in Spain at the start of 2023. The factory is set to create more
a CO2 limit. To be able to achieve these limits, suppliers need to imple- than 3,000 jobs by 2030. A production plant for battery systems
ment measures in their own production processes and upstream remains under construction in Hefei (China).
chains – for example, the use of renewable energy. Measures like
these can reduce the carbon footprint of many electric vehicle PowerCo, the Volkswagen Group’s battery company, and Belgian
models. For the ID. models, the Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand materials technology group Umicore also announced the forma-
will use additional sustainable components, including battery tion of a joint venture in the reporting year. The aim is to establish
cases and wheel rims made of CO2-reduced aluminum. In this way, a supply chain for sustainable battery materials on an industrial
the ID. family’s carbon footprint can be improved by around two scale. Together with Bosch, the Volkswagen Group also wants to
metric tons per vehicle by 2025. explore the creation of a European supplier to equip battery cell
factories. Both companies have signed a memorandum of under-
Volkswagen Group China is also working together with its suppliers standing to this end.
on a more sustainable supply chain. For example, together with
suppliers and partners, the group is developing a roadmap for switch- In addition, Volkswagen and Indian SUV manufacturer Mahindra
ing to 100% renewably generated electricity by 2030. To date, more signed a cooperation agreement for MEB components in 2022.
than 220 suppliers have already signed a declaration committing Mahindra plans to equip its Born Electric Platform with compo-
to switching to electricity from renewable sources. nents from Volkswagen, including electric motors, battery system
components and battery cells.
NOITAZINOBRACED
In the reporting year, the decision was made that the Volkswagen The use of new low-emission technologies for transporting pro-
Group Components site in Kassel is to become a key supplier for duction materials and vehicles will also be continuously analyzed
e-mobility. Specifically, the number of manufacturing lines for and accelerated.
e-motors and other e-components is to double over the next four years.
The measures the Volkswagen Group is taking to achieve future
Further Activities for Reducing Emissions in the Supply Chain carbon-neutral logistics include, for example, moving shipments
With the use of emission-reduced steel, we want to further reduce our from road to rail and almost complete CO2 avoidance through the
products’ carbon footprint in the future – starting in the Sport & use of green power in rail transport in Germany and other coun-
Luxury segment. To advance the transition to emission-reduced tries in collaboration with Deutsche Bahn AG and other rail s ervice
steel products, the Volkswagen Group is in discussions with selected providers. Additional rail services in Poland were switched over to
steel manufacturers. For example, there is a cooperation between green power in the third quarter of 2022, for example.
the Group subsidiary Scania and the start-up H2 Green Steel. Further-
more, Volkswagen AG has drawn up a memorandum of understand- In addition, Group Logistics is using the two roll-on/roll-off charter
ing with Salzgitter AG, under which Volkswagen is to become one of ships powered by low-pollution liquefied natural gas (LNG) for trans-
the first customers for Salzgitter AG’s low-CO2 steel. The steel is to be porting vehicles across the North Atlantic. Group Logistics plans to
produced on a new production route at Salzgitter AG’s headquarters replace conventionally operated ships on the North Atlantic route
in Lower Saxony from the end of 2025. with four more car freighters with the same propulsion system from
the end of 2023. In contrast to other LNG-fueled marine engines,
goTOzero Impact Logistics Group Logistics’ charter ships are climate-friendly because the high-
In the joint “goTOzero Impact Logistics” initiative, Group and brand pressure technology of the two-stroke engines from MAN Energy
logistics departments work together to achieve the goals of the Solutions allows almost no methane to escape. The dual- fuel engines
“goTOzero” environmental mission statement. The aim here is to will also enable non-fossil fuels – biogas (bio-LNG), e-gas (synthetic
reduce emissions by continuously optimizing the transport net- gas) from renewable sources, or biofuel – to be used in the future so
work and logistics processes – including by means of digitalization. that carbon emissions can be reduced even further.
NOITAZINOBRACED
THE DECARBONIZATION STRATEGY’S IMPACT ON THE CARBON FOOTPRINT (LIFE CYCLE ANALYSIS)*
–32%
Product electrification
47.0
40.7
~–50%
use of renewable charging
32.0
31.5
renewable power for battery
28.8 manufacturing
15.1
renewable power and low
carbon materials
7.1
3.1
16.1
7.7 8.0
Tiguan Tiguan ID.4 ID.4 ID.4 metric tons of CO₂
Gasoline Diesel
supply chain and production (inhouse) fuel and energy supply tailpipe emissions maintenance recycling
* V ehicle basis: Tiguan & ID.4: Production and use (200,000 km) in Europe; ID.4 (1st Edition): 498 km range; fuel and electricity supply (well to tank):
EU fuels, energy mix EU27, consumption (tank to wheel): WLTP; BEV: 82 kWh NMC 622 lithium ion battery, one battery over lifetime; chart data quality:
DQ 1.D = certified value.
In addition, Group Logistics permanently operates two charter ships To date, 62 Group production sites have been supplied with ex-
on European sea routes using certified renewable fuel. Used cooking ternal electricity from 100% renewable energy sources. Of these,
oils and fats provide the raw material for the biofuel, which produces 44 sites are within the EU and 18 sites are outside the EU.
less CO2 than conventional fossil fuels. These are waste and residual
materials from the catering and food industries, which, for example, In 2022, 54% of the Group’s total global electricity consumption at
cannot be used for further processing into food or animal feed. its production sites (including China) was covered by electricity
from renewable sources. Compared with the previous year, this is
Climate Protection in Manufacturing a rise of 3%. The Volkswagen Group is currently working together
Volkswagen wants to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in production with its Chinese partners to develop their own targets for the Chinese
by 50.4% in absolute terms compared to 2018 by 2030. According to production sites. The hurdles here include the high proportion of
the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi), this corresponds to a 1.5 °C coal-fired power generation in the Chinese electricity mix and the
target path. By 2022, absolute greenhouse gas emissions had already fact that China’s electricity market has not been liberalized.
been decreased by 27.2% compared with 2018. Key to this are in-
creasing energy efficiency and switching to a renewable power supply As a result of our efforts in energy efficiency and renewable energy
as important components of the decarbonization strategy. The supply, we already operate eight production sites on a carbon-neutral
Volkswagen Group has set itself the goal of implementing energy basis (taking offset measures into account). These are the sites in
efficiency measures from 2018 to 2030 that save a total of 4.9 million Brussels and Győr (Audi), Zwickau and Dresden (Volkswagen), Zuffen-
MWh of energy at the production sites. By 2022, 6,443 measures to- hausen and Leipzig (Porsche), Crewe (Bentley) and Vrchlabi (ŠKODA).
taling 2.4 million MWh had already been implemented. In connec- You can find further information on the certifications of our pro-
tion with the energy crisis in Europe, additional packages of mea- duction sites’ energy management systems (pursuant to ISO 50001
sures were agreed and have in some cases already been implemented. and ISO 14006) in the Environmental Compliance Management
This helps to counteract the impact of energy shortages in view chapter.
of the current political situation.
Environmental Compliance Management
Volkswagen is also paying particular attention to converting its own
electricity generation. The conversion of the power plants in Wolfs- Expanding the Fast Charging Infrastructure
burg from coal to natural gas, which commenced in 2019, is expected We are driving the further expansion of fast charging infrastructure
to reduce operational emissions. In 2021, a gas turbine system in the worldwide. For example, Volkswagen founded the joint venture
Wolfsburg Nord/Süd heat and power plant was put into operation. IONITY with other original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). IONITY
The project to switch from coal to natural gas at the Wolfsburg West had set up 430 fast charging stations on major highways across
heat and power plant is currently in the construction phase. Com- Europe by 2022. Along with its partners, the Group wants to operate
pletion of the construction and installation work is planned for the around 18,000 public fast charging points in Europe by 2025 – five
second quarter of 2023. As a result of the current geopolitical situation, times as many as today and about one third of the total demand pre-
which is having a massive impact on the energy supply, and the as- dicted for 2025 on the continent. This will be achieved through a
sociated possible gas shortage situation, Volkswagen believes that series of strategic partnerships in addition to IONITY:
the originally announced annual savings of 1.5 million metric tons
of CO2 can only be realized from the second quarter of 2024. So far, • BP wants to construct around 8,000 fast charging points across
it has been possible to achieve pro rata savings. Europe together with Volkswagen.
• In cooperation with Iberdrola, Volkswagen will, in particular,
Further progress is being made in supplying clients with electricity cover main traffic routes in Spain.
from renewable energies. For example, the percentage of electricity • In Italy, Volkswagen collaborates with Enel to expand the fast
purchased externally rose from 93.3% to 99.6% at EU production charging network both along freeways and in urban areas.
sites within one year. By 2023, all EU sites are to be supplied with
100% electricity from renewable sources. By 2030, the same target Volkswagen plans to expand the public fast charging network in
is planned for all global sites outside China. Volkswagen is also the US and China too:
driving the energy transition at its own sites. For example, we have
set ourselves the goal of generating 1.2 million MWh of power • In North America, Electrify America’s charging infrastructure is
from renewable energies ourselves or in the immediate vicinity of to be doubled to more than 1,800 locations and expanded by
the production sites by 2030. In 2022, 405,735 MWh of electricity 10,000 fast chargers by 2026.
was already generated from renewable energy in this way. • In China, Volkswagen is planning a total of 17,000 fast charging
points by 2025 through the CAMS joint venture.
NOITAZINOBRACED
By 2025, we and our partners plan to create around 45,000 fast or the Gold Standard. In addition to external certification standards,
charging points in Europe, China and the USA. Volkswagen wants we also assess offsetting projects for quality assurance in accor-
to spend about €400 million for the European program as a whole dance with our own criteria, which are outlined in the paragraph
by 2025. below on offset projects.
Increasing Vehicle Efficiency CO2 Fund Finances Decarbonization of Group’s Own Processes
Options in the system are intended to promote the efficiency of Up to €25 million is put into an internal CO2 fund each year. In this
vehicle operation in terms of energy consumption. For example, way, the Volkswagen Group proportionally funds projects around
driving mode selection supports fuel-efficient driving via one option. the world that make a contribution to reducing greenhouse gas
In addition, in the case of manual-transmission vehicles, there are emissions and are transferable to as many sites, brands and compa-
recommendations for changing gear, the selection of environmental nies as possible. One project that was funded this way in 2022 is
route planning in navigation systems and tips for saving gasoline. “goTOzero Retail.” The cross-brand team behind the project wants
to improve the environmental performance of dealers and other
E-Cars Will Be Part of Energy Systems in the Future partners. For example, a roadmap to reduce dealers’ CO2 emissions
Volkswagen plans to integrate the electric car into private, commercial has been adopted. The starting point for this is more transparency
and public energy systems in the future. This will allow green power about where in the dealer network which emissions occur. Specifi-
from the solar plant to be stored in the vehicle and fed back into cally, the team works along three areas for action. Firstly, the plan is to
the home network if needed. The Group launched two pilot projects improve customer perception at the point of sale in terms of sustain-
in connection with this in the reporting year. For example, our ability and to empower dealers to save emissions and resources
subsidiary Elli, the Elia Group and its start-up re.alto signed a joint locally. Secondly, a steering mechanism is to be developed to system-
memorandum of understanding. In the next few years, the partners atically transform the dealer network and realize CO2 reduction
want to develop solutions to overcome the obstacles that have targets. And thirdly, the progress on the project will be regularly
previously been identified regarding integrating electric cars into communicated internally and externally. The planned measures
energy systems. And in a pilot project in Saxony, Elli and the re- include certification of dealers in respect of the environmental per-
gional distribution grid operator MITNETZ STROM are trialing the formance, a KPI dashboard, the annual evaluation of CO2 emissions
smart network integration of e-vehicles. Volkswagen also plans in the retail network as well as a manual and web-based training
to offer a complete package with all technical modules and digital options for dealers. Further money from the CO2 fund was spent on
services for bidirectional charging. research on plastic recyclates and on replacing components such
as ventilation systems or lighting to save energy in this way.
Carbon-Neutral Delivery of Electric Vehicles
For a number of the Group’s electric vehicles, we have decided to take Joint Venture for Offset Projects Has Started Work
the voluntary measure of making their delivery to our customers We consider protecting natural carbon sinks to be an important task.
carbon-neutral. In this way, we want to make almost completely Measures in this area should be both scalable and able to ensure the
net carbon-neutral mobility possible for them, providing they additionality and permanence of atmospheric carbon sequestra-
choose a contract for renewable energy for charging the vehicle. tion. To underpin our commitment to climate protection projects
For as long as we cannot avoid CO2 emissions and cannot use re- and be able to develop our own projects in accordance with the
newable energies everywhere, we will do this by voluntarily offset- highest standards, VW Kraftwerk GmbH and ClimatePartner GmbH
ting the remaining greenhouse gas emissions from our supply have established a joint venture (JV): Volkswagen ClimatePartner
chain, production and logistics. This applies to MEB vehicles from GmbH. It develops and funds certified climate protection projects
the Volkswagen Passenger Cars, Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles that serve the recognized offsetting of CO2 emissions. One key
Audi, SEAT and ŠKODA brands in Europe. We expect the need for off- requirement for all projects is that they meet the highest quality
setting to increase for the next few years as a result of electrifica- standards. For this reason, the JV also takes control with regard to
tion and net carbon-neutral delivery in Europe. In 2022, this quality assurance. Core aspects include additionality, accuracy and
amounted to 5.9 million metric tons of CO2 for the Group. permanence of the emission reductions, the socioeconomic and
environmental advantageousness for the region, and regular audit
As part of net carbon-neutral delivery, we offset unavoidable emis- by independent third parties. The initial project standards are the
sions from the life cycle phases, such as from the supply chain or VCS, CCBS and GS. The JV commenced its operational work in 2022
production, through climate protection projects with high certifica- and is focusing on forest protection projects and nature-based solu-
tion standards. These include the Verified Carbon Standard (VCS), tions. It is accompanied by a specially established independent project
the Climate Community and Biodiversity Standards (CCB Standards) advisory board.
NOITAZINOBRACED
Commitment to Tropical Rain Forests Making the EU a Pioneer for Climate Protection: Involvement in
In the reporting year, Volkswagen became the first automotive the CEO Alliance
manufacturer to join the LEAF Coalition (Lowering Emissions by The CEO Alliance for Europe’s Recovery, Reform and Resilience is a
Accelerating Forest finance). Together with governments and com- pan-European and cross-sector alliance of large corporations based
panies around the world, the initiative supports the protection of in Europe that expressly support the EU’s Green Deal and the associ-
tropical rain forests and thus makes an important contribution ated climate protection targets. The CEO Alliance supports the goal of
to achieving the Paris climate goals, protecting biodiversity and making the EU the leading region in the world in climate protection,
realizing sustainable development. accelerating investment, driving innovation and thus creating fu-
ture-proof jobs. Oliver Blume, the new CEO of the Volkswagen Group,
EXPANDING CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND PARTNERSHIPS reinforced the commitment to the CEO Alliance once again in the
reporting year.
No single company can solve the great challenges of our time alone.
This requires solid partnerships and cross-sector alliances. The 13 member companies are currently working on more than ten
Volkswagen Group also relies on collaboration with third parties in joint projects. New additions last year included a project concept on
the context of decarbonization. the potential of digitally networked systems, one on the establish-
ment of a European value chain for photovoltaics and one on sus-
Promoting Innovations: Collaboration with EIT InnoEnergy tainable financing and investments. In addition, the CEO alliance
At the end of 2021, Volkswagen entered into a strategic partnership continues to work on an EU-wide charging infrastructure for heavy
with EIT InnoEnergy, a world-leading innovation driver for the energy duty trucks, integrated energy systems, sustainable buildings,
transition. Together, the companies want to promote technologies e-buses for Europe, a value chain for green hydrogen and the pro-
and business models that contribute to the decarbonization of the duction of green steel.
transportation sector and accelerate the transition to electric mobility.
For example, investments are to be made in promising start-ups that The CEO Alliance supports the European Commission’s Fit for 55
are active in this area. In the course of the partnership, Volkswagen program and is proposing rapid measures for decarbonizing mobil-
became a shareholder in EIT InnoEnergy. ity and transport, the transformation of the building sector and a
rapid decarbonization of the energy system in the EU. The CEO Alli-
Driving Decarbonization: Corporate Venture Capital Fund ance also expresses support for carbon pricing across industries and
Volkswagen wants to further drive decarbonization within and countries and is calling for political decision-makers in Europe to set
outside the Group from 2023 with a corporate venture capital (CVC) a strong price signal and continuously develop the EU emissions
fund with a volume of more than $300 million. The focus is on trading system.
the areas of traffic, energy and materials. The fund is intended to
promote innovations along the entire mobility value chain and
serve as a technological multiplier for the decarbonization of the
Volkswagen Group’s future business model. It targets early- and
growth-stage start-ups with an investment focus in the US and
Europe (including Israel). The fund is to be set up with a term of ten
years, which is customary in the market, and is to be managed by
an independent management team. In addition to Volkswagen,
the fund will also be open to other selected investors.
NOITAZINOBRACED
DEFINING AND PURSUING AMBITIOUS DECARBONIZATION emissions by 30% in the use phase (Scope 3) to the Volkswagen Group
TARGETS as in line with the limitation of global warming to two degrees
celsius. By 2030, the Group wants to emit 30% less CO2 on average
The Volkswagen Group wants to become a net carbon-neutral com- per vehicle (passenger cars and light commercial vehicles) over the
pany by 2050. To achieve this goal, offset action is also planned entire life cycle than in 2018. The targets are to be achieved through
alongside carbon reduction measures and converting to renewable pure CO2 reduction.
energies.
Decarbonization targets were also formulated in the area of heavy
50.4% trucks and buses, and these represent sub-targets for the Group. For
example, Scania is committed to reducing its absolute Scope 1 and
reduction
Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2025 compared with
the base year of 2015. In 2022, the company also announced its in-
targeted in production-related
tention to decarbonize its supply chain as far as possible by 2030.
CO2 emissions by 2030.
This involves the most important production materials and largest
sources of emissions: batteries, steel, aluminum and cast iron. The
In the reporting year, the Volkswagen Group increased its target for Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions from the use of vehicles sold are
reducing CO2 emissions in production by 2030. For example, the to be reduced by 20% per vehicle kilometer at Scania by 2025, also
Group wants to reduce the CO2 emissions of its passenger cars and compared with a 2015 baseline. The SBTi confirmed to Scania that
light commercial vehicles by 50.4% by 2030 – compared with the these targets are at a level that allow global warming to be limited to
base year of 2018. The Group had previously been aiming for a 1.5 degrees celsius. MAN also received SBTi certification of its
reduction of 30%. The Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) con- decarbonization target in the reporting year. In addition, Scania and
firmed to the Volkswagen Group in the reporting year that the MAN have committed to the SBTi’s Net-Zero Standard.
Company is fulfilling the conditions for limiting global warming to
1.5 degrees Celsius with its objective for the production phase This level of ambition for the decarbonization targets is considered
(Scope 1 and 2). Group-wide production also makes a contribution a minimum requirement for the Group brands, which are also free
to achieving Volkswagen AG’s overall climate goals with its stricter to set higher targets themselves. The following figure shows the
CO2 saving targets. SBTi has confirmed the aim of reducing CO2 individual brands’ ambitions.
NOITAZINOBRACED
DECARBONIZATION TARGETS OF THE GROUP BRANDS FROM 2018 TO 2030 (DCI)
Net carbon
–40%¹ –40%¹ –40%¹ –50%¹ –40%²
neutrality³, ⁴
¹ Target applies to EU27+3.
² Target applies to the EU, US and China region excluding completely knocked down production.
³ Target applies worldwide – offsets are part of Porsche’s decarbonization strategy alongside CO₂ reductions and abatement.
⁴ From 2030, all steps of the value chain of the new vehicles Porsche then puts on the market (production, use and recycling of vehicles) is to be net carbon
neutral.
Decarbonization Index for Target Achievement Measurability vidual life cycle phases have been more than compensated for. As a
In the decarbonization index (DCI), we have a meaningful measur- result of a more specific data set, the emissions recorded in the DCI
ing instrument that makes our progress and interim results in this decreased by 0.6 metric tons of CO2/vehicle in 2022. Projects in the
area public and verifiable. The DCI is calculated based on the CO2 supply chain (e.g., closed-loop management of aluminum scrap and
emissions of the brands of the Europe (EU27, UK, Norway and Ice- renewable energy for battery cell production) and our green power
land), China and US regions that manufacture passenger cars and in the use phase led to a reduction of total emissions in the DCI by
light commercial vehicles over the entire life cycle. In this index, 0.4 metric tons of CO2/vehicle. The electrification of the portfolio
the use phase is calculated over 200,000 km and with reference to combined with the use of renewable energies in production and
region-specific fleet values without legal flexibilities. The intensity the use phase is thus showing an impact.
of the CO2 emissions from the electricity used to charge electric
vehicles is also calculated on the basis of region-specific energy TRANSPARENCY ON CO2 EMISSIONS AS A BASIS FOR
mixes. Maintenance of the vehicles is not taken into account here. IMPROVEMENTS
Our vehicle life cycle assessments, which are used as the data basis
for calculating supply chain and recycling emissions, have been Every year, we calculate the Group’s carbon footprint using the
verified externally and independently in accordance with the Scope 1 to 3 inventory, in line with the requirements of the interna-
ISO 14040 standard. tionally accepted Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol). On this
basis, we can determine the success of the measures we have put
in place and identify other areas where we can take action.
DECARBONIZATION INDEX (DCI) Not shown are additional CO2 offset projects – e.g., for the carbon-
The DCI measures the average emissions of the CO₂ and neutral delivery of electric vehicles. The compensation volume in
CO₂ equivalents of the brands of the Europe (EU27, UK, the reporting period ran to 5.9 million metric tons of CO2. This
Norway and Iceland), China and US regions that manufac- equates to 0.9 metric tons of CO2 per vehicle for all vehicles included
ture passenger cars and light commercial vehicles over the in the decarbonization index.
entire life cycle and is expressed in metric tons of CO₂ per
vehicle. It includes not only the direct and indirect CO₂ In line with the Scope 3 standards published by the World Business
emissions of the individual production sites (Scope 1 and 2) Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the World Re-
but also all other direct and indirect CO₂ emissions in the sources Institute (WRI), we are reporting CO2 emissions for 13 out
life cycle of the vehicles (Scope 3). of a total of 15 Scope 3 categories in 2022. According to this, around
20% of all Scope 3 emissions are in the “Purchased goods and ser-
vices” emissions category, while 73.0% are in the “Use phase” emis-
The DCI calculation methodology is regularly adjusted depending sions category (well to wheel). To calculate use-phase emissions in
on internal and external requirements, such as new test cycles for the DCI and in the Scope 3 GHG inventory, fleet values not including
fleet emissions. In order to present a methodologically consistent any legal flexibilities are used.
time series, published DCI values may therefore also be adjusted to
the new methodology and thus changed. The calculation of CO2 emissions in the use phase of the Scope 3 GHG
inventory is based on a Group fleet value representing the global
In the reporting year, the DCI value averaged 48.0 metric tons of CO2 passenger cars and light commercial vehicles fleet in the three ma-
per vehicle. Compared with the figure for 2021, which was adjusted jor regions (Europe [EU27, UK, Norway and Iceland], the USA and
due to the change in calculation assumptions (for example, taking China). In order to provide a picture that is as complete as possible,
region-specific life cycle assessments into account for Chinese we also collect data on emissions in this category that are produced
models for the first time), this means a reduction of 0.4 metric tons during the production and transportation of fuels (“well to tank”
of CO2 per vehicle. This means that increases in emissions in indi- emissions).
NOITAZINOBRACED
Fleet CO2 emissions in Europe (EU27+2)¹ target of 199 g CO2/km (WLTP).2 This means that the Volkswagen
The Volkswagen Group’s new passenger car fleet in the EU (from 2022 Group outperformed the EU’s fleet CO2 target. All the figures men-
including Lamborghini and Bentley) (EU27+2) emitted an average tioned are subject to confirmation of the CO2 data in the context of
of 119 g CO2/km (Worldwide Harmonized Light Vehicles Test Proce- official publication by the European Commission. The targets are
dure – WLTP)2 in the reporting period in accordance with the statu- expected to be tightened from 2025 (subject to publication in the
tory measurement bases. The statutory target is 122 g CO2/km (WLTP).2 Official Journal of the EU): The European Commission thus stipulates
This means that the Volkswagen Group outperformed the EU’s fleet a 15% reduction in CO2, which corresponds to a CO2 target of less
CO2 target. All the figures mentioned are subject to confirmation of than 184 g CO2/km for our EU new light commercial vehicle fleet. A
the CO2 data in the context of official publication by the European 50% reduction has been set for 2030, which corresponds to a CO2
Commission. The targets are expected to be tightened from 2025 target of less than 108 g CO2/km. We expect our EU new light com-
(subject to publication in the Official Journal of the EU): The European mercial vehicle fleet to be able to meet the target for 2025 and
Commission has thus set a target of a 15% reduction in CO2, which outperform the target for 2030. A CO2 reduction target of 100% for
corresponds to a CO2 target of less than 105 g CO2/km for our EU light commercial vehicles has been set for 2035.
new passenger car fleet. A 55% reduction has been set for 2030, which
corresponds to a CO2 target of less than 55 g CO2/km. We expect our In the UK and Switzerland/Liechtenstein markets, the Volkswagen
new passenger car fleet in the EU to be able to meet this target for Group’s light commercial vehicle fleets met the statutory require-
2025 and outperform the target for 2030. A CO2 reduction target of ments for the reporting period. The Volkswagen Group’s passenger
100% for passenger cars has been set for 2035. car fleet fell just short of the statutory requirements for the report-
ing year in Switzerland. However, the target for the CO2 pool estab-
The Volkswagen Group’s new light commercial vehicles fleet in the lished with other manufacturers in the United Kingdom was
EU emitted an average of 193 g CO2/km (WLTP)2 in the reporting peri- reached.
od as per statutory measurements bases, compared with a statutory
CO2 EMISSIONS OF THE VOLKSWAGEN GROUP’S EUROPEAN (EU27+2) NEW PASSENGER CAR FLEET
in grams per kilometer (WLTP)
2022 119³
2021 119²,³
2020 100
2019 124
2018 123
0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160
1 Definition of EU27+2: Belgium, Malta, Bulgaria, the Netherlands, Denmark, Austria, Germany, Poland, Estonia, Portugal, Finland, Romania, France, Slovakia, Greece, Slovenia, Ireland, Spain,
Italy, Sweden, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Latvia, Hungary, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Cyprus + Iceland, Norway.
2 The European Commission switched its calculation of CO2 fleet emissions from NEDC to WLTP in 2021.
³ S ubject to confirmation of the CO2 data in the official publication by the European Commission.
NOITAZINOBRACED
CO2 fleet emissions in the USA By applying the statutory flexibility provided for regarding GHG
In the United States of America, the emission pool – comprising and in CAFE as well as externally acquired credits, the Volkswagen
the Group brands Volkswagen Passenger Cars, Audi, Lamborghini, Group succeeded in complying with applicable requirements – sub-
Bentley and Porsche – is obliged to comply with the Green House ject to confirmation by the authorities – for model year 2021. The
Gas (GHG) and Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) regulations. figure given for model year 2022 is also subject to confirmation
Due to a model year – the accounting period used in the USA – differ- by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
ing in length from the calendar year, internal calculations are used
to determine the figures for the current and preceding model year. We anticipate a CO2 target of around 110 g CO2/km in the USA for
The passenger car and light commercial vehicle fleets’ GHG CO2 figure 2025 and therefore expect to be able to achieve this target. We will
for model year 2022 (internal data as of September 2022) is an average increase the electric vehicle proportion of our new vehicle fleet to
of 141 g CO2/km (model year 2021: 146 g CO2/km) compared with a well over 50% by 2030 and are therefore within the current Admin-
statutory target of 136 g CO2/km (model year 2021: 142 g CO2/km). istration’s target range.
VOLKSWAGEN GROUP CO2 EMISSIONS ACCORDING TO THE GHG PROTOCOL FOR PASSENGER CARS
AND LIGHT COMMERCIAL VEHICLES IN THE USA
in grams per kilometer by model year
2022 1414
2021 1465
2020 152
2019 144
2018 158
0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160
4 S ubject to submission of the final MY report MY22 and subsequent confirmation by EPA and the California Air Resources Board (CARB) (internal data as of September 2022).
⁵ Subject to confirmation by EPA and CARB (final MY report MY21 submitted but not yet confirmed).
NOITAZINOBRACED
ACHIEVING DECARBONIZATION TARGETS TRATON SE’s heavy commercial vehicles have a significant carbon
footprint and are therefore part of a separate decarbonization pro-
We have two levers in particular available to us to impact green- gram that is connected with the existing decarbonization program
house gas emissions across the entire life cycle of Volkswagen prod- for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles via interfaces. The
ucts: the Group’s electric offensive and the Renewable Energies program and associated measures are intended to facilitate progress
strategy. Around 90% of the decarbonization targeted by the Group with reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
can be realized through electrification of the fleet and switching to
renewably generated energy. We track and manage whether we are Internal carbon pricing tools are an integral component of our de-
meeting our targets in these areas at a higher level. carbonization controlling. For example, when managing the port-
folio, we work with shadow prices to integrate emission-related
The Group Steering Committee for Sustainability is responsible for risks into decision-making processes and with internal emissions
our decarbonization program and target achievement. The Group trading to optimize reduction paths of CO2 fleet compliance. In the
Steering Committee for Fleet Compliance and a specially founded De- decarbonization program, we assess the efficiency of reduction
carbonization Project Center is responsible for strategy and target measures using abatement costs and aggregate these in an abate-
development and also for implementation of the program and fleet ment cost curve. As part of this, we are currently working with an
compliance. The Decarbonization Project Center includes experts internal carbon price or abatement costs of up to €20 per metric ton
from all brands and relevant departments. We use a predefined of CO2. This figure is reviewed annually based on target achievement
process overseen by the management of the Decarbonization Proj- and adjusted by a resolution of the Board of Management.
ect Center and the Group Steering Committee for Fleet Compli-
ance to check measures with which we can achieve the objective of
decarbonization. All production locations and the brands and re-
gions have prepared decarbonization roadmaps. The degree of target
achievement is measured with a tracking system. If we miss our
target, we implement corrective measures.
NOITAZINOBRACED
DECARBONIZATION KPIS
KPI Unit 2022 2021 Notes and comments
Decarbonization Index metric tons of 48.0 48.4 Passenger-car manufacturing brands
WLTP CO₂/vehicle (45.9) and light-commercial-vehicle-produc-
strategic KPI ing brands in the Europe (EU27, United
Kingdom, Norway and Iceland), China
and USA regions. As a result of a more
specific data set, the emissions record-
ed in the DCI decreased by 0.6 metric
tons of CO₂/vehicle in 2022. Projects in
the supply chain (e.g., closed-loop man-
agement of aluminum scrap and re-
newable energy for battery cell produc-
tion) and our green power measures in
the use phase led to a reduction of total
emissions in the DCI by 0.4 metric tons of
CO₂/vehicle. The calculation of the CO₂
savings from the Aluminum Closed Loop
was updated compared with the prior
year because the press shop offcuts
were reassessed. The DCI for 2021 and
2022 is reported without taking offset
measures into account. To enable
comparability, the DCI reported in 2021
(45.9 metric tons CO₂/vehicle) was ad-
justed to new calculation assumptions.
Average emissions of the new passenger car fleet
(strategic KPI)
EU g CO₂/km 119 119 From 2022 including Lamborghini and
Bentley
USA g CO₂/km 141 147 Emission pool: Volkswagen Passenger
Cars, Audi, Lamborghini, Bentley and
Porsche Forecast value: The figure
given for model year 2022 is also sub-
ject to confirmation by the EPA.
Alternative drive technologies in the Group Volkswagen Group production:
Volkswagen Passenger Cars, Audi,
ŠKODA, SEAT, Volkswagen light
commercial vehicles
Worldwide
Gas drives (natural gas and LPG) number of vehicles 15,387/ 35,192/
produced/percent- –56.3 –24.0
age change
Hybrid drives number of vehicles 229,882/ 239,998/
produced/percent- –4.2 +18.9
age change
All-electric drives number of vehicles 580,023/ 427,946/
produced/percent- +35.5 +112.2
age change
Alternative drives (total) number of vehicles 825,292/ 703,136/
produced/percent- +17.4 +56.3
age change
NOITAZINOBRACED
KPI Unit 2022 2021 Notes and comments
Europe EU27, United Kingdom, Norway and
Iceland
Gas drives (natural gas and LPG) number of vehicles 15,240/ 34,917/
produced/percent- –56.4 –23.6
age change
Hybrid drives number of vehicles 166,415/ 198,550/
produced/percent- –16.2 +46.7
age change
All-electric drives number of vehicles 340,952/ 289,389/
produced/percent- +17.8 +65.0
age change
Alternative drives (total) number of vehicles 522,607/ 522,856/
produced/percent- 0.0 +46.7
age change
Product carbon footprint (DCI) in metric tons of 48.0 48.4 See also Decarbonization Index note
CO₂/vehicle (45.9)
Scope 1 GHG emissions (absolute)¹ in million metric 4.46 4.67
tons of CO₂
of which Volkswagen AG in million metric 2.02 2.22
tons of CO₂
Scope 1 GHG emissions (specific) in kg of CO₂/ve- 415 476 Passenger cars and light commercial
hicle vehicles
in Volkswagen AG in kg of CO₂/ve- 3,024 3,507 Adjustment of figure for 2021 due to
hicle incorrect unit
Scope 2 GHG emissions (absolute)¹ in million metric 2.11 2.41
tons of CO₂
of which Volkswagen AG in million metric 0.11 0.14
tons of CO₂
Scope 2 GHG emissions (specific) in kg of CO₂/ve- 236 288 Passenger cars and light commercial
hicle vehicles
in Volkswagen AG in kg of CO₂/ve- 167 223
hicle
Scope 3 GHG emissions in million metric 395.62 364.14
tons of CO2
Category 1: Purchased goods and services in metric tons of 80,786,280/ 58,092,388/ The category 1 CO₂ emissions relate to
CO₂/in % 20.4 16.0 the supply chain emissions of all passen-
ger cars and light commercial vehicles
produced in the reporting year. They
were calculated on the basis of 63 pro-
duction-volume-weighted life cycle as-
sessments (LCAs). In the 2022 reporting
year, region-specific LCAs for Chinese
models were taken into account the first
time. All vehicle LCAs (passenger cars
and light commercial vehicles) have been
independently certified in accordance
with ISO 14040/44. The calculation of
the CO₂ savings from the Aluminum
Closed Loop was updated compared
with the prior year because the press
shop offcuts were reassessed. Additional
drivers of change include an increased
average vehicle weight and increased
production number.
1 S cope: The following sites are not included in the Group assessment in the reporting year: the four Scania Service Centers (Johannesburg, Narasapura, Kuala Lumpur, Taoyuan City); two
MAN Truck & Bus sites (Serendah, St. Petersburg); one site in China (Suzhou) and four other sites still currently under construction in China (a vehicle plant in Hefei, a vehicle plant in
Changchun and two other component plants in Hefei with planned production start in 2023/2024). The figures for December of the reporting year include an estimate. The estimated
figures for the prior year were replaced in the current data collection.
NOITAZINOBRACED
KPI Unit 2022 2021 Notes and comments
Category 2: Capital goods in metric tons of 6,633,357/ 5,523,322/ The emissions associated with capital
CO₂/in % 1.7 1.5 goods were calculated on the basis of an
economic input-output analysis using
the investment data in the Volkswagen
AG Annual Report.
Category 3: Fuel- and energy-related emissions in metric tons of 1,034,162/ 1,224,681/ The Group-wide consumption of ener-
(not included in Scope 1 or 2) CO₂/in % 0.3 0.3 gy is recorded annually in our internal
environmental information system
and converted into CO₂ equivalents us-
ing emission factors for the various en-
ergy sources from a representative ge-
neric database.
Category 4: Upstream transportation and in metric tons of 4,124,894/ 3,929,898/ This number is equivalent to the CO₂
distribution CO₂/in % 1.0 1.1 emissions from energy-source supply
and use, both from inbound and out-
bound transports and transportation
processes between our sites worldwide.
Transportation data are manually de-
rived from internal transport IT systems
for all modes of transport and manually
recorded processes. Figure based on the
2022 CDP report – the figure for the
2022 reporting year will appear in the
2023 CDP report.
Category 5: Waste in metric tons of 909,775/ 911,348/ The waste produced across the Group
CO₂/in % 0.2 0.3 is recorded annually in our internal en-
vironmental information system and
converted into CO₂ equivalents using
emission factors for the various waste
streams from a representative generic
database.
Category 6:² Business travel in metric tons of 123,816/ 721,059/ Due to the low proportion of emissions
CO₂/in % 0.0 0.2 (< 0.5%), the previous calculation was
based on a generic approach. For the
2022 reporting year, the emissions
were, for the first time, calculated us-
ing a new measurement approach
based on Volkswagen AG’s actual air
and rail travel and extrapolated for the
Group.
Category 7:² Employee commuting in metric tons of 1,099,091/ 1,096,418/ The CO₂ emissions are based on activi-
CO₂/in % 0.3 0.3 ty data that were collected in a specific
survey representing commuting to/
from our largest site in Wolfsburg. The
calculation assumes 220 working days
per year and a distribution between
modes of transport of 75% by car, 10%
by train (long-distance transport), 5%
by public transport (land transport)
and 10% by public transport (urban).
The corresponding emission factors for
these four modes of transport were
calculated on the basis of external ge-
neric data sources. The global Scope 3
emissions caused by commuting were
extrapolated from the Wolfsburg results
on the basis of headcount.
Category 8: Upstream leased assets in metric tons of 413,446/ 342,703/ The calculation is based on Group-wide
CO₂/in % 0.1 0.1 payments for rights to use land, build-
ings and buildings on third-party land.
The emissions for this category were
estimated using an economic in-
put-output analysis.
Category 9: Downstream transportation and Included in category 4
distribution
2 Due to the low proportion of emissions (< 0.5%), the previous calculation was based on a generic approach. In the reporting year, specific reference data were used to further develop the
methodology for emissions in the business travel category, and the plan is to do this for emissions in the commuting category in the 2023 reporting year.
NOITAZINOBRACED
KPI Unit 2022 2021 Notes and comments
Category 10: Processing of sold products Included in Scope 1
Category 11: Use of sold products in metric tons of 287,767,802/ 279,380,915/ The CO₂ emissions comprise the well-
CO₂/in % 72.7 76.7 to-wheel emissions of all passenger
cars and light commercial vehicles sold
in 2022 at an assumed lifetime mileage
of 200,000 km. The calculation is based
on the weighted average fleet emis-
sions [g CO₂/km] in the main markets
of the EU27 (plus IS + NO + UK), China
and the USA in accordance with the cur-
rently legally applicable driving cycles.
Region-specific emission factors for fuel
and electricity supply chains from a rep-
resentative generic database were used
to calculate the corresponding well-to-
tank emissions.
Category 12: E nd-of-life treatment of sold in metric tons of 552,289/ 747,070/ The category 12 CO₂ emissions relate
products CO₂/in % 0.1 0.2 to the potential end-of-life emissions
of all passenger cars and light commer-
cial vehicles produced in the reporting
year. They were calculated on the basis
of 63 production-volume-weighted life
cycle assessments (LCAs). In the 2022
reporting year, region-specific LCAs for
Chinese models were taken into ac-
count the first time. All vehicle LCAs
(passenger cars and light commercial
vehicles) have been independently cer-
tified in accordance with ISO
14040/44.
Category 13: Downstream leased assets in metric tons of 9,162,826/ 10,619,440/ The calculation is based on, among
CO₂/in % 2.3 2.9 other things, payments received by the
Group for rights to use land, buildings
and buildings on third-party land. The
emissions for this category were esti-
mated using an economic input-out-
put analysis.
Category 14: Franchises in metric tons of 3,009,100/ 1,550,000/ Due to the low proportion of emissions
CO₂/in % 0.8 0.4 (< 0.5%), the previous calculation was
based on a generic approach. From the
2022 reporting year, the calculation is
based on an annual evaluation of the
CO₂ emissions of the Volkswagen
Group’s trading and service partners on
the basis of the sites’ energy consump-
tion and country-specific emission fac-
tors. The latter come from a represen-
tative generic database.
NOITAZINOBRACED
EU TAXONOMY
The Volkswagen Group supports the EU’s overarching goal. We are
committed to the Paris Climate Agreement and align our own ac-
Doing business in an environmentally sustainable way is one of the tivities with the 1.5 °C goal. We aim to achieve net carbon neutrality
central challenges of our time. The EU has defined criteria for deter- by 2050.
mining the degree of a company’s environmental sustainability.
With our taxonomy-aligned investments in development activities REPORTING FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022
and in property, plant and equipment, we are today already shaping
the future in an environmentally sustainable way as envisaged by Under the EU Taxonomy, the Volkswagen Group is required to report
the EU Taxonomy. on the climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation
environmental objectives for fiscal year 2022; the EU has not yet de-
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES fined the disclosure requirements for the other four environmental
objectives. The figures reported on sales revenue, capital expenditure
As part of the European Green Deal, the European Union (EU) has and operating expenditure relate to the companies consolidated in
placed the topics of climate protection, the environment and sustain- the Volkswagen Group’s financial statements. Volumes and financial
ability at the heart of its political agenda in order to achieve climate data for our Chinese joint ventures are therefore excluded.
neutrality by the year 2050. The finance sector is expected to make
an important contribution to realizing this objective. In this context, The wording and terminology used in the EU Taxonomy are still
the EU published the “Strategy for Financing the Transition to a subject to some uncertainty in interpretation, which could lead to
Sustainable Economy” in 2021. Aimed at supporting the financing changes in the reporting when it is subsequently clarified by the
of the transition to a sustainable economy, the published strategy EU. Ultimately, there is a risk that the key performance indicators
contains proposals relating to transition finance, inclusiveness, presented as taxonomy-aligned would need to be assessed differ-
resilience and contribution of the financial system, and global am- ently. Our interpretation is set out below.
bition. It is based on the EU’s action plan on Financing Sustainable
Growth of 2018. In addition to “Disclosures” and “Tools”, another ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES OF THE VOLKSWAGEN GROUP
key module is the EU Taxonomy (Regulation (EU) 2020/852 and
associated delegated acts). With the Group strategy “NEW AUTO” – Mobility for generations to
come, we are preparing ourselves for the global changes in mobility
The EU Taxonomy is a classification system for sustainable economic and thus playing a substantial role in driving Volkswagen’s trans-
activities. An economic activity is considered taxonomy-eligible if formation into a software-oriented company. In so doing, we pay
it is listed in the EU Taxonomy and can therefore potentially con- particular attention to the use of resources and the emissions of our
tribute to realizing at least one of the following six environmental product portfolio, as well as those of our sites.
objectives:
The Volkswagen Group’s activities in its vehicle-related business
• Climate change mitigation with passenger cars, light commercial vehicles, trucks, buses and
• Climate change adaptation motorcycles cover the development, production and sale of vehicles
• Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources and extend to our financial services and other vehicle-related
• Transition to a circular economy products and services. Activities in these areas are suited under the
• Pollution prevention and control EU Taxonomy to making a substantial contribution to the environ-
• Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems. mental objective of climate change mitigation by increasing clean
or climate-neutral mobility.
An activity is only considered environmentally sustainable, i.e.,
taxonomy-aligned, if it meets all three of the following conditions: The Volkswagen Group’s activities in the Power Engineering Business
Area comprise the development, design, production, sale and ser-
• The activity makes a substantial contribution to one of the envi- vicing of machinery and equipment. These activities also fall under
ronmental objectives by meeting the screening criteria defined the environmental objective of climate change mitigation.
for this economic activity, e.g., level of CO2 emissions for the climate
change mitigation environmental objective. An analysis of our economic activities in the context of the EU Tax-
• The activity meets the Do-No-Significant-Harm (DNSH) criteria onomy has not revealed any activities that contribute specifically
defined for this economic activity. These are designed to prevent to the environmental objective of climate change adaptation.
significant harm to one or more of the other environmental objec-
tives, e.g., from the production process or by the product. The table below sets out the allocation of our activities in the vehicle-
• The activity is carried out in compliance with the minimum safe- related business and in Power Engineering to the economic activi-
guards, which apply to all economic activities and relate primarily ties listed in the EU Taxonomy under the environmental objective
to human rights and social and labor standards. of climate change mitigation. Changes may be made to the eco-
nomic activities in future as the rules around the EU Taxonomy dy-
namically evolve.
YMONOXAT
UE
Economic activity in accordance with Description of economic activity Allocation in the Volkswagen
the EU Taxonomy Group
Environmental objective: climate change mitigation
3. Manufacturing
3.2 Manufacture of equipment for the Manufacture of equipment for the production and use Power Engineering
production and use of hydrogen of hydrogen.
3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technolo- Manufacture, repair, maintenance, retrofitting, repurposing and Vehicle-related business
gies for transport upgrade of low-carbon vehicles, rolling stock and vessels.
3.6 Manufacture of other low-carbon Manufacture of technologies aimed at substantial greenhouse Power Engineering
technologies gas emission reductions in other sectors of the economy, where
those technologies are not covered by other economic activities
in the manufacturing sector.
9. Professional, scientific and technical activities
9.1 Close to market research, development Research, applied research and experimental development of Power Engineering
and innovation solutions, processes, technologies, business models and other
products dedicated to the reduction, avoidance or removal of
greenhouse gas emissions for which the ability to reduce, remove
or avoid greenhouse gas emissions in the target economic
activities has at least been demonstrated in a relevant environ-
ment, corresponding to at least Technology Readiness Level 6.
Economic Activities in Vehicle-Related Business present primarily under Other sales revenue in the consolidated
Economic activity 3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for financial statements cannot be classified as economic activities
transport under the EU Taxonomy, and we have therefore initially classified
We allocate all activities in our vehicle-related business associated them as not being taxonomy-eligible.
with the development, production, sale (including financial services),
operation and servicing of vehicles to this economic activity. This Economic Activities in Power Engineering
includes all passenger cars, light commercial vehicles, trucks, buses In the Power Engineering Business Area, we have analyzed our ac-
and motorcycles manufactured by us, irrespective of their power- tivities with respect to their classification under the EU Taxonomy
train technology, and also includes genuine parts. and, with the exception of the heavy fuel oil engine new building
business and individual components for the extraction and pro-
In our vehicle-related business, we have detailed the vehicles man- cessing of fossil fuels, have identified them as taxonomy-eligible.
ufactured by us by model and powertrain technology and analyzed
the CO2 emissions associated with them in accordance with the Economic activity 3.2 Manufacture of equipment for the production
current regulations. In this way, we have identified those vehicles and use of hydrogen
among all of our taxonomy-eligible vehicles that meet the screening Our activities relating to the manufacture of equipment for the pro-
criteria and with which the substantial contribution to climate duction and use of hydrogen that meet the screening criteria and
change mitigation is measured. These include all of the Volkswagen make a substantial contribution to the climate change mitigation
Group’s all-electric vehicles. Until December 31, 2025, they also include objective are taxonomy-eligible. One example is the use of green
passenger cars and light commercial vehicles with CO2 emissions hydrogen. At Volkswagen, the activities cover the power-to-X tech-
of less than 50 g/km in accordance with the WLTP. This encompasses nology for the production of low-carbon or carbon-neutral synthetic
the majority of our plug-in hybrids. Buses meeting the EURO VI fuels, as well as components for the storage of hydrogen.
standard (Stage E) were also included until December 31, 2022.
Economic activity 3.6 Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies
At this stage, other activities that are directly associated with the The description of this economic activity means that only those
primary vehicle-related business and that in our view should also technologies manufactured for the purpose of reducing green-
be allocated to this economic activity have not yet been included or house gas emissions substantially in other sectors of the economy
have been interpreted as not yet being taxonomy-eligible. This is are taxonomy-eligible. At Volkswagen, this comprises all new-build
because, as the rules of the EU Taxonomy currently stand, it is still activities that enable the use of gas and climate-neutral synthetic
unclear where to record them in accordance with the EU Taxonomy. fuels (e.g., manufacturing of gas and dual-fuel engines), all industrial
These activities particularly include the sale of engines and power- solutions for energy storage and sector coupling (e.g., heat pumps)
trains, as well as parts deliveries, the sale of non-Group products and and all solutions for carbon capture, storage and usage; it also in-
production under license by third parties. Based on current as- cludes subsea compression (a solution close to the wellhead for the
sumptions, hedging transactions and individual activities that we extraction of natural gas). These activities are rounded off by the
YMONOXAT
UE
service and after-sales business, comprising the upgrading and Below, we set out our interpretation and describe the main analyses
modernization of existing equipment. For example, we retrofit we used to examine whether there was any significant harm to the
existing maritime fleets with technology that makes it possible to other environmental objectives. The wording and terminology used
reduce CO2 emissions. in the EU Taxonomy are subject to some uncertainty in interpretation
and supposedly go beyond the regulations to be applied in regular
Economic activity 9.1 Close to market research, development and business operations. In addition, the application of the EU Taxonomy
innovation to sites outside the EU leads to particular challenges due to the
The description of this economic activity includes applied research possibility of diverging legislation. We took applicable laws as well
in technologies for the reduction or avoidance of greenhouse gas as external and internal regulations and guidelines as the basis for
emissions. We allocate our licensing business to this economic ac- our assessments, which confirm that we meet the requirements of
tivity. In the course of such business we provide our development the DNSH criteria in the reporting period for the vehicle- related
services in the form of production documents, based on which our business and the Power Engineering sites.
licensees are authorized to manufacture corresponding gas and/or
dual-fuel engines. Climate change adaptation
We performed a climate risk and vulnerability assessment to iden-
With regard to economic activity 3.2 Manufacture of equipment for tify which production sites may be affected by physical climate
the production and use of hydrogen, we meet the screening criteria risks. The physical climate risks we identified were assessed on the
that determine whether a substantial contribution has been made basis of the lifetime of the relevant fixed asset.
to the mitigation of climate change. As the reporting obligations and
the complex requirements specified therein, such as for life cycle Volkswagen’s climate-based DNSH assessment is based on Repre-
analyses, were not introduced until very recently, it has not yet been sentative Concentration Pathway (RCP) scenario 8.5 to the year
possible to provide corresponding proof of economic activities 2050 and thus assumes the highest concentration of CO2 according
covered by 3.6 Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies and to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). The rele-
9.1 Close to market research, development and innovation. vance of the identified threats was assessed for the local environ-
ment and, if appropriate, the measures needed to mitigate the risk
DO NO SIGNIFICANT HARM (DNSH) were developed.
The DNSH criteria were analyzed in the reporting year for economic Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources
activities covered by 3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technologies We evaluated our economic activities with respect to the sustainable
for transport and 3.2 Manufacture of equipment for the production use and protection of water and marine resources looking at the
and use of hydrogen. following three criteria: preserving water quality, avoiding water
stress, and an environmental compatibility assessment (EIA or
In the vehicle-related business, an analysis was performed for each comparable process). Risks identified in an EIA are examined during
vehicle production site where passenger cars, light commercial the approval process and, if relevant, result in measures and regula-
vehicles, trucks and buses are or will be produced that meet the tory requirements. We based the analysis primarily on ISO 14001
screening criteria for the substantial contribution of economic certificates, information from site approvals and other external data
activity 3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technologies for transport, sources related to sites with a high risk exposure.
or that are to meet them in future according to our five-year plan-
ning, and based on current regulations. Of the approximately Transition to a circular economy
40 sites included, the majority are located in the EU, with some in Environmentally compatible waste management in the manufac-
the United Kingdom, Türkiye, South Africa, the USA, Mexico, Brazil, turing process, reuse and use of secondary raw materials and a long
Argentina and China. In addition to these, we also included the sites product lifespan are a major part of Volkswagen’s environmental
that manufacture specific components for electric vehicles. management system. Volkswagen defines clear and unambiguous
guidelines on the circular economy in its environmental principles,
For the Power Engineering Business Area, an analysis was per- in its overall factory white paper and in its “goTOzero” strategy.
formed for each site that produces relevant components for systems
or is responsible for supply chains that meet the screening criteria The product-related requirements for passenger cars and light com-
for the substantial contribution of economic activity 3.2 Manufac- mercial vehicles are taken into account through implementation of
ture of equipment for the production and use of hydrogen, or that the statutory end-of-life vehicle requirements in conjunction with
are to meet them in future according to our five-year planning. the type approval of the vehicle models. In addition to this, each
There are three such sites in Germany and one in Sweden. brand has targets and measures for the use of recycled materials in
new vehicles. For trucks and buses, a review was conducted at the
level of each brand to establish the extent to which local legislation
or internal rules and regulations cover the specific requirements.
YMONOXAT
UE
Pollution prevention and control Relationships with our business partners are based on the Code of
To be considered as environmentally sustainable, an economic Conduct for Business Partners. We review compliance with the bind-
activity must not significantly increase air, water or soil pollutant ing requirements defined in the Code, using sustainability ratings
emissions as compared with the situation before the activity started. for relevant suppliers. We address existing sustainability risks and
The DNSH criteria for this environmental objective require that violations of sustainability principles by systematically defining
the economic activity in question does not lead to the manufacture, and implementing measures to correct the violations; this also in-
distribution or use of substances listed in a variety of EU chemical cludes the upstream supply chain. We implemented a Human Rights
regulations and directives or product-specific rules and regulations. In Focus System in 2022 to comply with international frameworks and
this context, we also consider the use of alternative substances in our requirements and specifically the German Supply Chain Due D iligence
analyses and assessments. Overall, the automotive sector is tightly Act (Lieferkettensorgfaltspflichtengesetz –LkSG). The system aims to
regulated already, as demonstrated, for example, by the publicly identify particularly high risks in our supply chain in connection
accessible Global Automotive Declarable Substance List (GADSL). with human rights violations and the environment and to manage
Approval and monitoring processes have been implemented with these appropriately. The assessments confirm that we meet the
the aim of ensuring compliance with the legal requirements and requirements of the minimum safeguards in the reporting year.
internal rules and regulations applicable to regular business opera-
tions. This also ensures compliance with the legislation specified in Key Performance Indicators in accordance with the EU Taxonomy
the DNSH criteria. For this purpose, we applied the requirements Regulation
applicable to regular business operations in the E uropean Union in The EU Taxonomy defines sales revenue, capital expenditure and
2022. Outside of the EU we applied the regulations specific to the operating expenditure as the key performance indicators that must
country in question. be reported on. We explain these below. The tables required by the
EU Taxonomy are included at the end of the section.
Protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems
In order to verify adherence to the requirements on biodiversity and The financial figures relevant for the Volkswagen Group are taken
ecosystems, the relevant areas were identified. Where biodiversity- from the IFRS consolidated financial statements for fiscal year 2022.
sensitive areas are located close to a production site, we checked As we differentiate between economic activities, we have avoided
whether a nature conservation assessment had been performed and double counting. Where possible, the figures have been directly
whether nature conservation measures had been defined in the allocated to an economic activity. In our vehicle-related business, for
environmental approvals and subsequently implemented. We also example, we compiled the financial figures based on the vehicle
checked whether changes had occurred in an area’s conservation model and powertrain technology. This applies both to the vehicles
status. themselves and to the corresponding financial services and other
services and activities.
MINIMUM SAFEGUARDS
Only where this was not possible for capital expenditure and oper-
The minimum safeguards consist of the OECD Guidelines for Mul- ating expenditure were allocation formulas used based on the
tinational Enterprises, the United Nations Guiding Principles on planned vehicle volumes. In the Power Engineering Business Area,
Business and Human Rights, the Fundamental Conventions of the we used allocation formulas based on planned sales revenue. This
International Labour Organization (ILO) and the International Bill data and planning form part of the medium-term financial planning
of Human Rights. for the next five years on which the Board of Management and Su-
pervisory Board have passed a resolution.
The Volkswagen Group accepts its corporate responsibility for human
rights, fully recognizes these conventions and declarations and re- Sales revenue
affirms its agreement with the contents and principles stated therein. The definition of turnover in the EU Taxonomy corresponds to sales
revenue as reported in the IFRS consolidated financial statements.
Below, we describe the main analyses we used to examine whether This amounted to €279.2 billion in fiscal year 2022 (see also note on
the minimum safeguards are adhered to. “Sales revenue” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements).
The Volkswagen Group has conducted and completed human rights Of this total, €254.5 billion, or 91.1% of Group sales, was attributable
risk assessments for 802 controlled Group companies worldwide; to economic activity 3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon technologies
this includes all sites that were also examined under the DNSH crite- for transport, and was classified as taxonomy-eligible. This includes
ria. This risk analysis takes into account the prior-year results and sales revenue after sales allowances from the sale of new and used
risk assessments. The companies were given risk-specific measures vehicles, including motorcycles, from genuine parts, from the rent-
to counteract the risks identified in the analysis, and were required al and lease business, and from interest and similar income, as well
to implement these. The status of implementation of the respective as sales revenue directly related to the vehicles, such as workshop
measures is continuously monitored by the Group. and other services.
YMONOXAT
UE
Of the taxonomy-eligible sales revenue, €26.1 billion meet the In the Power Engineering Business Area, the majority of our taxo n-
screening criteria used to measure the substantial contribution to omy-eligible sales revenue was attributable to economic activity
climate change mitigation. This includes all of our all-electric 3.6 Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies (€2.5 billion). A
vehicles, the majority of the plug-in hybrids, and the buses meeting further €35 million was contributed by economic activity 9.1 Close
the EURO VI standard (Stage E). to market research, development and innovation. Our activities
that fall under economic activity 3.2 Manufacture of equipment for
In 2022, there were 596 thousand such vehicles, 6.5% more than in the production and use of hydrogen generated taxonomy-aligned
the previous year. Their share of the relevant sales volume – exclud- sales revenue of €18 (5) million, taking into account the DNSH criteria
ing the vehicles from the Chinese joint ventures – rose to 11.1 (10.1)%. and minimum safeguards. The increase in taxonomy- aligned sales
Passenger cars and light commercial vehicles made up the bulk at revenue is attributable to the expansion of business and above all
594 thousand vehicles; trucks and buses recorded a ninefold increase to the initial consolidation of H-TEC SYSTEMS GmbH.
year-on-year. Sales of all-electric vehicles were up significantly.
Of the Volkswagen Group’s total sales revenue in fiscal year 2022,
Taking into account the DNSH criteria and minimum safeguards,
€26.1 (21.1) billion of the sales revenue generated from our vehicle- • €257.0 (227.8) billion, or 92.1 (91.0)%, was taxonomy-eligible sales
related business, equating to 9.4 (8.5)% of consolidated sales revenue, revenue and
was taxonomy-aligned. Of this amount, €19.6 billion, or 7.0% of con- • €26.1 (21.2) billion, or 9.4 (8.5)%, was taxonomy-aligned sales
solidated sales revenue, was attributable to our all-electric models revenue.
(BEVs). In 2022, compliance with the DNSH criteria was also demon-
strated for truck and bus sites.
SALES REVENUE 2022
Substantial contribu- Compliance Compliance
tion to climate with DNSH with minimum Taxonomy-aligned sales
Economic activities Sales revenue change mitigation criteria safeguards revenue
€ million %¹ € million %¹ Y/N Y/N € million %¹
A. Taxonomy-eligible activities 257,043 92.1 26,145 9.4 Y Y 26,145 9.4
Vehicle-related business
3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon 254,502 91.1 26,128 9.4 Y Y 26,128 9.4
technologies for transport
of which taxonomy- – – – – Y Y 19,589 7.0
aligned BEVs
Power Engineering
3.2 Manufacture of equipment 18 0.0 18 0.0 Y Y 18 0.0
for the production and use of
hydrogen
3.6 Manufacture of other 2,488 0.9 – – – – – –
low-carbon technologies
9.1 Close to market research, 35 0.0 – – – – – –
development and innovation
B. Taxonomy-non-eligible 22,189 7.9
activities
Total (A + B) 279,232
1 All percentages relate to the Group’s total sales revenue.
YMONOXAT
UE
Capital Expenditure business activity, while site-based allocation formulas were used for
Capital expenditure for the purposes of the EU Taxonomy refers to production companies. This means that capital expenditure was
the following items in the IFRS consolidated financial statements: counted in full via the allocation formulas for sites that according to
additions to intangible assets, additions to property, plant and our medium-term planning will only produce vehicles meeting the
equipment, and additions to lease assets and investment property. screening criteria for the substantial contribution in the next five
These are reported in the notes to the 2022 consolidated financial years. In contrast, capital expenditure on sites that only produce ve-
statements in the notes on “Intangible assets”, “Property, plant and hicles not meeting the screening criteria was not counted under the
equipment” and “Lease assets and investment property”. Additions allocation formula. Calculated in this way, capital expenditure relat-
from business combinations, each of which is reported under ing to vehicles that meet the screening criteria for the substantial
“Changes in consolidated Group”, are also included. By contrast, contribution amounted to €16.9 billion.
additions to goodwill are not included in the calculation.
Taking into account the DNSH criteria and minimum safeguards,
In fiscal year 2022, additions in the Volkswagen Group as defined capital expenditure of €16.9 (14.2) billion was taxonomy-aligned.
above amounted to This represented 34.5 (26.2)% of the Group’s total capital expenditure.
Of this figure, €5.8 billion was attributable to intangible assets,
• €11.7 billion from intangible assets, €5.7 billion to property, plant and equipment and €5.4 billion to
• €12.9 billion from property, plant and equipment and lease assets and investment property. The figure includes additions
• €24.1 billion from lease assets (mainly vehicle leasing business) to capitalized development costs of €4.4 billion and additions to
and investment property. property, plant and equipment of €5.4 billion for our all-electric
vehicles (BEVs). The increase in taxonomy-aligned capital expendi-
Other additions to be included resulted from changes in the con- ture – both the absolute value and the proportion – is attributable
solidated Group, amounting to €0.4 billion in fiscal year 2022. Total to the growing number of environmentally sustainable vehicle
capital expenditure to be included in accordance with the EU Tax- projects under the EU Taxonomy.
onomy therefore came to €49.1 billion.
In the reporting period, we refinanced taxonomy-aligned capital ex-
All capital expenditure attributable to our vehicle-related business is penditure from fiscal year 2021 based on the Green Finance Frame-
associated with economic activity 3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon work updated in October 2022 by issuing green bonds in the
technologies for transport. Taxonomy-eligible capital expenditure amount of €2.5 billion. Only capital expenditure in connection
for the vehicle-related business amounted to €48.8 billion, or 99.4% with all-electric vehicles was included here. Also in 2022, Scania
of the Group’s capital expenditure. issued a green bond totaling SEK 3.0 billion to finance research
and development activities relating to battery-electric vehicles.
To determine the substantial contribution in the vehicle-related €178 million of this total was used in the year under review already,
business, we compiled the financial figures based on the vehicle of which €98 million was attributable to taxonomy-aligned capital
model and powertrain technology in the same way as for sales re v- expenditure. Adjusted for this figure, taxonomy-aligned capital
enue. Where possible, capital expenditure was directly attributed to expenditure attributable to the vehicle-related business accounted
vehicles. It was included if the vehicles in question make a substan- for 34.3% of total capital expenditure in accordance with the EU
tial contribution to the climate change mitigation objective. Any cap- Taxonomy.
ital expenditure directly attributable to vehicles that do not meet the
screening criteria was not included. Capital expenditure that was not €27 million of the taxonomy-eligible capital expenditure in the
clearly attributable to a particular vehicle was taken into account Power Engineering Business Area is attributable to economic activ-
on a proportionate basis using allocation formulas. In our vehicle- ity 3.2 Manufacture of equipment for the production and use of
related business, we developed allocation formulas based on planned hydrogen and 60 million is attributable to economic activity
vehicle volumes for the Group companies. In the sales companies, for 3.6 Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies. For the latter,
example, we used allocation formulas related either to individual operating expenditure was broken down based on planned sales
vehicle brands or to all vehicle brands, depending on the primary revenue.
YMONOXAT
UE
Taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure for the manufacture of Of the Volkswagen Group’s total capital expenditure in fiscal year
equipment for the production and use of hydrogen was disclosed 2022,
for the first time in the amount of €27 million, almost two thirds of
which was attributable to intangible assets and around one third to • €48.9 (53.6) billion, or 99.6 (99.2)%, was taxonomy-eligible capital
property, plant and equipment. The expenditure relates predomi- expenditure and
nantly to the initial consolidation of H-TEC SYSTEMS GmbH. • €16.9 (14.2) billion, or 34.5 (26.2)%, was taxonomy-aligned capital
expenditure.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 2022
Substantial contribu- Compliance Compliance
tion to climate with DNSH with minimum Taxonomy-aligned capital
Economic activities Capital expenditure change mitigation criteria safeguards expenditure
€ million %¹ € million %¹ Y/N Y/N € million %¹
A. Taxonomy-eligible activities 48,873 99.6 16,943 34.5 Y Y 16,943 34.5
Vehicle-related business
3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon 48,786 99.4 16,917 34.5 Y Y 16,917 34.5
technologies for transport
of which additions to Y Y 4,415 9.0
capitalized develop-
ment costs for BEVs
of which additions to Y Y 5,398 11.0
property, plant and
equipment for BEVs
Power Engineering
3.2 Manufacture of equipment 27 0.1 27 0.1 Y Y 27 0.1
for the production and use of
hydrogen
3.6 Manufacture of other 60 0.1 – – – – – –
low-carbon technologies
9.1 Close to market research, – – – – – – – –
development and innovation
B. Taxonomy-non-eligible 205 0.4
activities
Total (A + B) 49,078
1 All percentages relate to the Group’s total capital expenditure.
Operating Expenditure Where possible, non-capitalized research and development costs
The operating expenditure reported by us for the purposes of the EU were directly attributed to vehicles. They were included if the vehicles
Taxonomy comprises non-capitalized research and development in question make a substantial contribution to the climate change
costs, which can be taken from the note on “Intangible assets”. We mitigation objective. We did not include any non-capitalized research
also include the expenditure for short-term leases recognized in and development costs directly attributable to vehicles that do not
our consolidated financial statements, which can be found in the meet the screening criteria. Non-capitalized research and develop-
note on “IFRS 16 (Leases)”, and expenditure for maintenance and ment costs that were not clearly attributable to a particular vehicle
repairs. were taken into account on a proportionate basis using allocation
formulas. For these and other operating expenses, allocation formu-
The allocation of operating expenditure to the economic activities las were used, similarly to capital expenditure. Of the taxonomy-
followed the same logic as that described for capital expenditure. aligned operating expenditure of €4.9 (3.3) billion, 85.8% was at-
tributable to non-capitalized research and development costs. The
All operating expenditure attributable to the vehicle-related business increase in taxonomy-aligned operating expenditure – both the
is associated with economic activity 3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon absolute value and the proportion – is attributable to the growing
technologies for transport and has been classified as taxonomy- number of environmentally sustainable vehicle projects under the
eligible.
YMONOXAT
UE
EU Taxonomy. Including the share of the bond issued by Scania 3.6 Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies. For the latter,
attributable to taxonomy-aligned operating expenditure, the share operating expenditure was broken down based on planned sales
of taxonomy-aligned operating expenditure declined from revenue.
42.7 (32.7)% to 42.0% of total operating expenditure in accordance
with the EU Taxonomy. Taxonomy-aligned operating expenditure for the manufacture of
equipment for the production and use of hydrogen was disclosed for
€4 million of the taxonomy-eligible operating expenditure in the the first time in the amount of €4 million, which was attributable
Power Engineering Business Area is attributable to economic ac- to non-capitalized research and development costs and related pre-
tivity 3.2 Manufacture of equipment for the production and use of dominantly to the initial consolidation of H-TEC SYSTEMS GmbH.
hydrogen and €199 million is attributable to economic activity
OPERATING EXPENDITURE 2022
Substantial contribu- Compliance Compliance
tion to climate with DNSH with minimum Taxonomy-aligned
Economic activities Operating expenditure change mitigation criteria safeguards operating expenditure
€ million %¹ € million %¹ Y/N Y/N € million %¹
A. Taxonomy-eligible activities 11,395 98.9 4,926 42.7 Y Y 4,926 42.7
Vehicle-related business
3.3 Manufacture of low-carbon 11,191 97.1 4,922 42.7 Y Y 4,922 42.7
technologies for transport
Power Engineering
3.2 Manufacture of equipment 4 0.0 4 0.0 Y Y 4 0.0
for the production and use of
hydrogen
3.6 Manufacture of other 199 1.7 – – – – – –
low-carbon technologies
9.1 Close to market research, – – – – – – – –
development and innovation
B. Taxonomy-non-eligible 131 1.1
activities
Total (A + B) 11,525
1 All percentages relate to the Group’s total operating expenditure.
YMONOXAT
UE
CAPEX PLAN UNDER THE EU TAXONOMY As a result, €9 billion of the taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure
and €3 billion of the taxonomy-aligned operating expenditure in the
The EU Taxonomy requires the reporting to state the extent to which reporting period is attributable to the CapEx plan under the EU Taxo n-
taxonomy-aligned capital and operating expenditures a) relate to omy. The total capital expense from the CapEx plan under the EU
assets or processes associated with environmentally sustainable eco- Taxonomy that is expected to be incurred in the reporting period
nomic activities or b) are part of a plan to expand taxonomy- aligned and during the five-year medium-term planning amounts to €100
economic activities or to allow taxonomy-eligible economic activi- billion.
ties to become taxonomy-aligned (CapEx plan). A CapEx plan under
the EU Taxonomy shows the total capital expense, i.e., the sum of In the Power Engineering Business Area, the CapEx plan under the
capital and operating expenditures expected to be incurred in the EU Taxonomy relates to economic activity 3.2 Manufacture of
reporting period and during the five-year medium-term planning to equipment for the production and use of hydrogen listed in the
expand taxonomy-aligned economic activities or allow taxonomy - climate change mitigation environmental objective. Based on the
eligible economic activities to become taxonomy- aligned. ratio of sales revenue in the reporting period to the average sales
revenue envisaged in the medium-term planning, we allocated
For the vehicle-related business, the CapEx plan drawn up under €26 million of the taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure and
the EU Taxonomy relates to economic activity 3.3 Manufacture of €4 million of the taxonomy-aligned operating expenditure to the
low-carbon technologies for transport within the climate change CapEx plan. The total capital expense from this CapEx plan under
mitigation environmental objective. the EU Taxonomy that is expected to be incurred in the reporting
period and during the medium-term planning amounts to approx-
Additions from lease assets (mainly vehicle leasing business) are imately €300 million.
based on existing environmentally sustainable activities and have
therefore not been included in the CapEx plan. We allocated addi-
tions from intangible assets and property, plant and equipment as
well as non-capitalized research and development costs to the CapEx
plan if they allow taxonomy-eligible economic activities to become
taxonomy-aligned or lead to the expansion of taxonomy-aligned
economic activities. For this we compared the average taxo nomy-
aligned production volume from the medium-term planning with
the taxonomy-aligned vehicles from the reporting period and
allocated the taxonomy-aligned capital expenditure according to
this ratio whereby we considered the share exceeding the current
taxonomy- aligned production volume.
YMONOXAT
UE
)mrah
tnacifingis
on
od(
airetirc
HSND
noitubirtnoc
tnacifingis
a
rof
airetirC
yrogetac
seitivitca noitisnarT
yrogetac
seitivitca gnilbanE
1202 eunever
selas fo noitroporp
dengila-ymonoxaT
2202 eunever
selas fo noitroporp
dengila-ymonoxaT
sdraugefas muminiM
smetsysoce dna
ytisrevidoiB
noitulloP
ymonoce ralucriC
secruoser eniram
dna retaW
noitatpada
egnahc etamilC
noitagitim
egnahc etamilC
²smetsysoce dna
ytisrevidoiB
²noitulloP
²ymonoce ralucriC
²secruoser eniram
dna retaW
noitatpada
egnahc etamilC
noitagitim
egnahc etamilC
eunever selas fo
noitroporP
eunever selas etulosbA
)s(edoC
2202
EUNEVER
SELAS
T
E
¹%
¹%
N/Y
N/Y
N/Y
N/Y
N/Y
N/Y
N/Y
¹%
¹%
¹%
¹%
¹%
¹%
¹%
)m(
€
seitivitca
cimonocE
seitivitca
elbigile-ymonoxaT
.A
yllatnemnorivnE
1.A
seitivitca
elbaniatsus
)dengila-ymonoxat(
E
5.8
4.9
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
–
–
–
–
–
4.9
4.9
821,62
3.3
nobrac-wol
fo
erutcafunaM
tropsnart
rof
seigolonhcet
E
0.0
0.0
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
–
–
–
–
–
0.0
0.0
81
2.3
tnempiuqe
fo
erutcafunaM
esu
dna
noitcudorp
eht rof negordyh fo
5.8
4.9
–
–
–
–
–
4.9
4.9
541,62
-norivne
morf
eunever selaS
-ivitca
elbaniatsus
yllatnem
)1.A(
)dengila-ymonoxat(
seit
tub
elbigile-ymonoxaT
2.A
yllatnemnorivne
ton
ton(
seitivitca
elbaniatsus
)seitivitca
dengila
-ymonoxat
8.18
473,822
3.3
nobrac-wol
fo
erutcafunaM
tropsnart
rof
seigolonhcet
9.0
884,2
6.3
rehto
fo
erutcafunaM
seigolonhcet
nobrac-wol
0.0
53
1.9
-ed ,hcraeser
tekram
ot esolC
noitavonni
dna
tnempolev
7.28
898,032
-ymonoxat
morf
eunever selaS
-nemnorivne
ton
tub elbigile
seitivitca
elbaniatsus
yllat
dengila-ymonoxat
ton(
)2.A(
)seitivitca
1.29
340,752
)2.A
+ 1.A( latoT
elbigile-non-ymonoxaT
.B seitivitca
9.7
981,22
-ymonoxat
morf
eunever selaS
)B(
seitivitca
elbigile-non
0.001
232,972
)B + A( latoT
.eunever
selas
latot
s’puorG
eht
ot
etaler
segatnecrep llA
1
.denfied
tey
ton
evitcejbo
latnemnorivne
eht
ot
noitubirtnoc
tnacfiingis
a rof airetirC
2
YMONOXAT
UE
)mrah
tnacifingis
on
od(
airetirc
HSND
noitubirtnoc
tnacifingis
a
rof
airetirC
yrogetac
seitivitca noitisnarT
yrogetac
seitivitca gnilbanE
1202 erutidnepxe
latipac fo noitroporp
dengila-ymonoxaT
2202 erutidnepxe
latipac fo noitroporp
dengila-ymonoxaT
sdraugefas muminiM
smetsysoce dna
ytisrevidoiB
noitulloP
ymonoce ralucriC
secruoser eniram
dna retaW
noitatpada
egnahc etamilC
noitagitim
egnahc etamilC
²smetsysoce dna
ytisrevidoiB
²noitulloP
²ymonoce ralucriC
²secruoser eniram
dna retaW
noitatpada
egnahc etamilC
noitagitim
egnahc etamilC
erutidnepxe latipac fo noitroporP
erutidnep -xe latipac etulosbA
)s(edoC
2202
ERUTIDNEPXE
LATIPAC
T
E
¹%
¹%
N/Y
N/Y
N/Y
N/Y
N/Y
N/Y
N/Y
¹%
¹%
¹%
¹%
¹%
¹%
¹%
)m(
€
seitivitca
cimonocE
seitivitca
elbigile-ymonoxaT
.A
yllatnemnorivnE
1.A
seitivitca
elbaniatsus
)dengila-ymonoxat(
E
2.62
5.43
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
–
–
–
–
–
5.43
5.43
719,61
3.3
nobrac-wol
fo
erutcafunaM
tropsnart
rof
seigolonhcet
E
–
1.0
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
–
–
–
–
–
1.0
1.0
72
2.3
tnempiuqe
fo
erutcafunaM
esu
dna noitcudorp
eht
rof
negordyh
fo
2.62
5.43
–
–
–
–
–
5.43
5.43
349,61
-norivne
fo erutidnepxe
latipaC
seitivitca
elbaniatsus
yllatnem
)1.A( )dengila-ymonoxat(
tub
elbigile-ymonoxaT
2.A
yllatnemnorivne
ton
ton(
seitivitca
elbaniatsus
)seitivitca
dengila-ymonoxat
9.46
078,13
3.3
nobrac-wol
fo
erutcafunaM
tropsnart
rof
seigolonhcet
1.0
06
6.3
rehto fo
erutcafunaM
seigolonhcet
nobrac-wol
–
–
1.9
-ed ,hcraeser
tekram
ot
esolC
noitavonni
dna
tnempolev
1.56
039,13
fo erutidnepxe
latipaC
ton
tub elbigile-ymonoxat
elbaniatsus
yllatnemnorivne
-ymonoxat
ton(
seitivitca
)2.A( )seitivitca
dengila
6.99
378,84
)2.A
+
1.A(
latoT
elbigile-non-ymonoxaT
.B
seitivitca
4.0
502
-noxat
rof erutidnepxe
latipaC
)B( seitivitca
elbigile-non-ymo
0.001
870,94
)B
+ A(
latoT
.erutidnepxe
latipac
latot
s’puorG
eht ot etaler
segatnecrep
llA
1
.denfied
tey
ton
evitcejbo
latnemnorivne
eht
ot
noitubirtnoc
tnacfiingis
a
rof airetirC
2
YMONOXAT
UE
)mrah
tnacifingis
on
od(
airetirc
HSND
noitubirtnoc
tnacifingis
a
rof
airetirC
yrogetac
seitivitca noitisnarT
yrogetac
seitivitca gnilbanE
1202 erutidnepxe
gnitarepo fo noitroporp
dengila-ymonoxaT
2202 erutidnepxe
gnitarepo fo noitroporp
dengila-ymonoxaT
sdraugefas muminiM
smetsysoce dna
ytisrevidoiB
noitulloP
ymonoce ralucriC
secruoser eniram
dna retaW
noitatpada
egnahc etamilC
noitagitim
egnahc etamilC
²smetsysoce dna
ytisrevidoiB
²noitulloP
²ymonoce ralucriC
²secruoser eniram
dna retaW
noitatpada
egnahc etamilC
noitagitim
egnahc etamilC
erutidnepxe gnitarepo fo noitroporP
erutidnepxe gnitarepo etulosbA
)s(edoC 2202
ERUTIDNEPXE
GNITAREPO
T
E
¹%
¹%
N/Y
N/Y
N/Y
N/Y
N/Y
N/Y
N/Y
¹%
¹%
¹%
¹%
¹%
¹%
¹%
)m(
€
seitivitca
cimonocE
seitivitca
elbigile-ymonoxaT
.A
yllatnemnorivnE
1.A
seitivitca
elbaniatsus
)dengila-ymonoxat(
E
7.23
7.24
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
–
–
–
–
–
7.24
7.24
229,4
3.3
nobrac-wol
fo
erutcafunaM
tropsnart
rof
seigolonhcet
E
–
0.0
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
–
–
–
–
–
0.0
0.0
4
2.3
tnempiuqe
fo
erutcafunaM
esu
dna
noitcudorp
eht
rof
negordyh
fo
7.23
7.24
–
–
–
–
–
7.24
7.24
629,4
rof
erutidnepxe
gnitarepO
elbaniatsus
yllatnemnorivne
-ymonoxat(
seitivitca )1.A( )dengila
tub
elbigile-ymonoxaT
2.A
yllatnemnorivne
ton
ton(
seitivitca
elbaniatsus
)seitivitca
dengila
-ymonoxat
4.45
962,6
3.3
nobrac-wol
fo
erutcafunaM
tropsnart
rof
seigolonhcet
7.1
991
6.3
rehto
fo
erutcafunaM
seigolonhcet
nobrac-wol
–
–
1.9
,hcraeser
tekram
ot
esolC
noitavonni
dna
tnempoleved
1.65
964,6
fo
erutidnepxe
gnitarepO
ton
tub
elbigile-ymonoxat
elbaniatsus
yllatnemnorivne
-ymonoxat
ton( seitivitca
)2.A(
)seitivitca
dengila
9.89
593,11
)2.A
+ 1.A(
latoT
elbigile-non-ymonoxaT
.B
seitivitca
1.1
131
rof
erutidnepxe
gnitarepO
elbigile-non-ymonoxat
)B( seitivitca
0.001
525,11
)B + A(
latoT
.erutidnepxe
gnitarepo
latot
s’puorG
eht ot
etaler
segatnecrep
llA
1
.denfied
tey
ton
evitcejbo
latnemnorivne
eht
ot
noitubirtnoc
tnacfiingis
a rof airetirC
2
YMONOXAT
UE
CIRCUL AR
ECONOMY
STRENGTHENING THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY raw materials from our products. The topic of circular economy is also
a core element of the “goTOzero” Group environmental mission
The finite nature of natural resources and the social and environ- statement, on which we orient the strategic design of this action
mental consequences of mining raw materials make uncoupling eco- area. With this Group mission statement, the Volkswagen Group is
nomic growth from resource consumption and the development of setting itself the target of, among other things, further improving
a circular economy key sustainability topics. Against this background, its resource efficiency and promoting reuse and recycling approaches
there are extensive opportunities for companies to tap into new in the areas of materials, energy and water. Other topics that con-
business models and markets or to give themselves an edge in the tribute to the topic of circular economy are embedded in the “go-
competition for limited resources with changed use concepts. At TOzero – Zero Impact Factory” program. It is guided by the vision
the same time, new legal requirements need to be met. For example, of creating a factory that has no adverse environmental impact.
policymakers at international and national level have made it their
aim to regulate markets more aggressively in the future in an effort Environmental Compliance Management
to speed up the transformation towards resource efficiency and a
circular economy. One important driver of the circular economy is With a circular way of doing business in mind, we aim to minimize
the ongoing decarbonization of the Volkswagen Group: The grow- our consumption of resources, to live up to extended producer
ing use of secondary materials and the establishment of closed responsibility and to reduce energy consumption. The vehicles al-
material loops is helping to significantly reduce our CO2 emissions. ready have a long service life: The average age of an end-of-life vehi-
cle is 14 to 20 years according to national authorities in Europe. For
GROUP-WIDE WORKING STRUCTURES AND STEERING COMMITTEES the first steps regarding circular economy, we have concentrated
on the aspects of batteries, steel, aluminum and plastics. The results
Recognizing the importance of this topic, Volkswagen has anchored obtained from this are used to further develop the overall circular
circular economy as a focus topic in Group Initiative 6 of the NEW economy strategy and for devising new business models. In geopoliti-
AUTO Group Strategy. Cross-divisional and cross-brand working cally difficult times, the topic of circular economy is also about
structures have been developed at Group level for managing the strengthening the Group’s resilience and minimizing dependencies.
topics to be developed. These build on the work of committees such
as the Group Steering Committee for the Environment and Energy, Our approach to waste disposal in production aims to reduce the
the Group Steering Committee for Sustainability, the Group Steer- quantity of waste we produce and to reuse unavoidable waste to
ing Committee for Product Recycling and the Group Working Com- create high- quality materials – i.e., to close loops. The focus is on:
mittee for Environment Product.
• Avoiding waste creation by optimizing production and auxiliary
We want to intensify our efforts for a transition to a loop-oriented processes and increasing material utilization levels (material
and resource-conserving way of doing business even further in the efficiency)
future. To achieve this, we rely on alliances and the implementa- • Reducing the quantity of waste produced by processing waste at
tion of joint projects with various partners, such as suppliers, plant sites
manufacturers, the recycling sector and universities. • Prioritizing the reuse of waste and reducing the quantity of
waste that needs to be disposed of
OUR PATH TO CLOSED MATERIAL LOOPS
In addition to waste, another focus is on the resource of water.
Fundamentally, we pursue four lines of action at Group level in the We focus on the following areas of activity in sustainable water
area of circular economy: Firstly, we are already stepping up efforts management:
to use recyclable and reusable materials in our vehicle projects – for
example, from production waste. In addition, we want to further • Reduction of freshwater consumption and efficiency in water
improve the supply of circular materials, i.e., secondary materials use, particularly in water stress areas
and renewable raw materials – for example, by buying back end-of- • Minimization of pollution and no worsening of the environmental
life vehicles – and thus bring valuable materials back into the loop. and chemical status in the receiving waters (waters into which
Another approach is to preserve recyclable materials through reuse the treated wastewater is introduced)
and repurposing – for example, in the recycling of high-voltage ve- • Increased soil and groundwater protection when using water-
hicle batteries in Salzgitter. And last but not least, we are working in- polluting substances
tensively on developing business models that simplify the recovery of
YMONOCE
RALUCRIC
MEASURES ALONG THE ENTIRE LIFE CYCLE Use of Renewable Raw Materials
To reduce our resource consumption, we rely on raw materials from
The most important measures that we want to take to implement renewable sources when manufacturing our vehicles. Wherever
the circular-economy strategy include further clarifying targets possible, our Group brands use raw materials from renewable re-
and indicators and also realizing circular business models. This sources such as the natural fibers flax, cotton, wood and cellulose.
applies to the most important components and materials, such as Such materials can be used if they comply with all the technical
batteries, steel, aluminum or plastics. We are planning to add a spe- equirements and perform better than conventional materials over
cific KPI set for the topic of circular economy to the existing KPIs the life cycle. In addition, our sustainability standards apply to
(DCI, reduction of the environmental impact of production). It will our suppliers.
include a description of the use of circular materials at vehicle level
and a breakdown by different vehicle projects. The KPI set will also ŠKODA is an example of this. For instance, in collaboration with the
be used in battery production and show the progress in this area. In Technical University of Liberec and the supplier, the brand has
addition, in the future the Group wants to indicate which revenue developed a sustainable, ecological material made from sugar beet
we generate through closed-loop circulation. pulp which can be used in dyed form in the interior of vehicles to
create certain design accents. In addition, ŠKODA is working on
To make our contribution to a circular way of doing business, we another material based on the miscanthus reed which will also be
are stepping up efforts to use material loops in our production pro- used in the interior of models in the future. In addition, the Group
cesses. When selecting raw materials, we opt for recycled ones is investigating the use of other ecologically sourced materials,
obtained from production waste or end-of-life products. When de- such as materials based on cellulose. One flagship project is cooper-
veloping new vehicles, we pay attention to the recyclability of the ation with a recycling company. As part of this, a process has been
required materials, using high-quality recycled materials and avoid- developed to turn painted bumpers into granules. These can then
ing pollutants. Under the European Directive on end-of-life vehicles, be used for new bumpers.
passenger cars and light commercial vehicles must be 85% recyclable
and 95% recoverable at end of life. All our vehicles registered in Use of Recycled Materials in Vehicles
Europe comply with these standards. Using the highest possible proportion of recycled materials is very
important for us. In the ID. family, for example, ceiling headliners,
Our Procurement Division has established a Group-wide system for fabrics, carpets, seats, door trim and decorative inlays are being
recovering waste materials that can generate income – for example, made from sustainable material. The seat textiles for all lines are
paper, plastics, wood, electronic components or metal. Under the partly made of up to 100% recycled PET – these were frequently
umbrella of the Zero Impact Factory initiative, we are intensifying previously PET bottles. In the Golf 8, 28% of the textiles and 6% of
our efforts to avoid plastic waste with the Zero Plastic Waste project. the thermoplastics are made from recycled materials.
This includes the project for recycling plastic waste in diesel tank
production, which is described below. In-House Expertise in Battery Recycling
Electric drives are an important step toward low-emission mobility
Vehicle Development Measures and thus help to protect the climate. At the same time, their pro-
We include the circularity of our vehicles in our thinking as early duction results in different materials entering circulation from the
as the development stage. For example, all operating fluids can later production of conventional vehicles – for example, high-voltage
be removed from the end-of-life vehicle and parts to be removed batteries. The raw materials these contain are valuable and it is im-
are disassembled. Other measures include: portant for them to remain in circulation for many reasons. For ex-
ample, the mining and use of these raw materials is associated with
• The use of recycled materials is permitted for many components emissions and other adverse environmental impacts. If we use
if they meet the same quality standards as the primary material. battery raw materials multiple times instead, this significantly re-
• All components made of plastic are labeled in accordance with duces these impacts and helps us to reduce our carbon footprint.
international ISO standards so as to be able to later identify them Moreover, making use of materials multiple times also helps to save
and separate them by type. costs. Volkswagen Group is already working on a recycling concept
for batteries. Volkswagen has also entered into strategic partner-
ships for this, particularly with the recycling group Umicore.
YMONOCE
RALUCRIC
Volkswagen Group Components opened the Group’s first pilot facil- The innovative and CO2-saving recycling process does not require
ity for recycling high-voltage vehicle batteries at the Salzgitter site at energy-intensive melting in a blast furnace. The used battery systems
the start of 2021. The objective is industrialized recovery of valuable are delivered, deep discharged and dismantled. The individual
raw materials such as lithium, nickel, manganese and cobalt in a parts are ground into granules in the shredder and then dried.
closed loop and also of aluminum, copper and plastic, with a recy-
cling rate of more than 90% in the future. Batteries are only recycled In addition to aluminum, copper and plastics, the process mainly
if they can no longer be used in other ways – for example, in recondi- yields valuable “black powder” containing lithium, nickel, manga-
tioned form in mobile energy storage systems such as flexible fast- nese, cobalt and graphite, which are important raw materials for bat-
charging stations or charging robots. The facility has been initially teries. The separation and processing of the individual substances by
designed to recycle up to 3,600 battery systems per year in pilot op- hydrometallurgical processes – using water and chemical agents – is
eration. subsequently carried out by specialized partners. As a consequence,
AFTER USE IS BEFORE USE – THE LOOP FOR BATTERY RAW MATERIALS
Recovered raw materials
Separation of valuable
raw materials by type Cathode material
(hydrometallurgy) Partner
Mechanical recycling Battery cell
Reconditioning/
Battery system
second life
Volks
wagen Group Co m p
onents
Analysis Use
Return
YMONOCE
RALUCRIC
MAKING NEW FROM OLD – THIS IS HOW MANY VALUABLE MATERIALS A BATTERY CONTAINS
Remainder 41 kg
Steel 3 kg
Lithium 8 kg
Electronics 9 kg
Cobalt 9 kg Aluminum 126 kg
Manganese 12 kg
Plastic 21 kg
Copper 22 kg
Example weight
400 kg
Electrolyte 37 kg Graphite 71 kg
Nickel 41 kg
essential components of old battery cells can be used to produce new again for another life cycle in the vehicle’s use phase. Cross-brand
cathode material. The material recovered can be used to support uniform standards and structures are created from within the
battery cell production at Volkswagen in the future. The CO2 sav- Group’s after sales segment to jointly implement new circular econo-
ings are calculated to be approximately 1.3 metric tons per 62-kWh my projects in a targeted and efficient way. If customers choose the
battery manufactured using cathodes made from recycled material reconditioned part as an alternative to a new part, they are actively
and green electricity. supporting sustainable resource conservation and the reduction of
energy requirements and CO2 emissions.
Recycling of Vehicle Parts and Tools
The aim of our focus on high quality with a low need for repair is to The environmental impact of a brand-new gearbox has been com-
give our vehicles long lives in the use phase, thus making an impor- pared with that of its reconditioned equivalent in a certified environ-
tant contribution to resource efficiency. If a part nevertheless fails, mental impact study. Ultimately, a 54% reduction in CO2 emissions
we additionally offer new parts through the Exchange Parts pro- and a 52% decrease in primary energy requirements can be
gram of the Group’s after sales segment and its brands. The world- achieved through reconditioning. The amount of energy this saves
wide return of used parts from the workshops and their subsequent per reconditioned gearbox is 1.3 gigajoules, which is equivalent to
industrial reconditioning are a key component of the replacement the range of an electric car of more than 2,200 km (ID.3 on the basis
program. By means of our development skills and structured qual- of WLTP).
ity standards and processes, we make the part ready to be used
Currently, the product range includes around 8,300 parts for central Furthermore, it is not just vehicle parts that are reconditioned at
vehicle components, such as motors, gearboxes or electronic com- Volkswagen but also production tools. This is what, for instance, the
ponents. In 2022, we took back around 407,000 used parts from center of excellence for tools at the Salzgitter site is for. An average
67 countries in the central used parts warehouse through our return of 160,000 tools have been processed here each year since 2009 to
process. This is equivalent to a return rate of 97%. make them suitable to return to use.
YMONOCE
RALUCRIC
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF GEARBOX RECONDITIONING
Greenhouse gas effect (kg of CO2 equivalents)
210
CO2
96 –54%
–114 kg
Primary energy requirement (gigajoules, GJ)
2.47
1.18 –52%
–1.3 GJ
(361 KWH)
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
New part Reconditioning
Recovery of Precious Metals from Catalytic Converters and Particulate ing process. Around 20 metric tons of aluminum chips are produced
Filters here each day and melted down in the plant. According to forecasts,
The Exchange Parts program also makes a contribution to the cir- this alternative to regular aluminum production reduces the energy
cular economy through taking back used catalytic converters and requirements by around 3,250 MWh per year and reduces CO2
particulate filters. The recovery of the precious metals platinum, emissions by more than 1,400 metric tons per year. In the medium
palladium and rhodium, which are contained in them, is achieved term, the foundry wants to melt down a further 40 metric tons of
through cross-brand processes. Around 80,000 catalytic converters material from other European Volkswagen plants per day. In the
and particulate filters are taken back from the Group brands’ work- long term, the quantity is set to rise to up to 80 metric tons of chips
shops each year. In addition, catalytic converters from engine test- per day.
ing facilities and production batches are also fed into the recycling
process. In this way, more than 600 kg of precious metals are re- At the Volkswagen plant in Wolfsburg, plastic waste produced in
covered as raw materials and are available to the Group as secondary the process of manufacturing gasoline tanks (co-extrusion) is
material. The recovered raw materials are used in the production of prepared and used again for the production of diesel tanks (mono-
new exhaust systems for Group vehicles, with the result that materi- extrusion). As a result, around 1,600 metric tons of material that
als loops are closed and the need for new precious metals can be would otherwise be disposed of can be used in plastic tanks in this
reduced. way each year. This can save the plant 2,500 metric tons of CO2
and €2 million in costs of materials each year.
Aluminum Closed Loop at Audi
A closed loop for aluminum was achieved for the first time beyond Responsible Use of Water
Company boundaries in the Neckarsulm plant in 2017 with the We want to use the resource of water as sparingly as possible. The
Aluminum Closed Loop Project. The waste from aluminum sheet- supply chain, in particular obtaining and processing raw materials,
metal parts from the press shop is delivered directly back to the sup- is responsible for the greater part of our water use. Because we can-
pliers, who can recycle the scrap and use it to produce new material not influence these aspects directly – despite our sustainability re-
that Audi then uses again in the press shop. Compared with using quirements for suppliers – we concentrate on our production sites.
primary aluminum, recycling aluminum waste can save up to 95% Of all freshwater that we use for manufacturing passenger cars and
of the energy used in manufacturing. In this way, Audi avoids CO2 light commercial vehicles, 50.3% (around 15.9 million m³) is used
emissions and reduces the quantity of primary raw materials needed. by sites in risk zones. These are regions with water shortages, such
In addition to the plant in Neckarsulm, the Audi plants in Ingolstadt as Mexico. The closed-loop circulation or recirculation of cooling
and Győr have now also joined the Aluminum Closed Loop process. and process water mean the need for freshwater and the quantity
The process itself and the resultant net CO2 savings of more than of wastewater can be reduced considerably. The San José Chiapa
633,881 metric tons of CO2 since 2017 have been verified by inde- (Mexico) Audi site, which can be considered a wastewater-free site
pendent third parties. The calculation of the CO2 savings from the due to closed-loop circulation, provides a good example of this.
Aluminum Closed Loop Project was updated compared with the
prior year because the press shop offcuts were reassessed. We manage water-saving processes at all our Group’s locations
during production in line with Group-wide specifications. In addi-
tion, Volkswagen supports the Water Disclosure Project (WDP), which
633,881 metric
was launched by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), through the
transparency of its water management. In 2022, we were given the
top grade of A in the WDP ranking for our sustainable water manage-
tons of CO2
ment and are thus back in the leadership index. Given our growing
production figures and the integration of new sites, our Group’s ab-
solute freshwater use has increased in recent years. From 2010 to
have been saved since 2017
2022, the quantity of freshwater used for the manufacture of pas-
through the Aluminum Closed Loop process.
senger cars and light commercial vehicles decreased by 17.4% per
vehicle thanks to a wide range of recycling measures and the intro-
Recycling Production Waste duction of manufacturing processes requiring little water. The
Waste with recyclable content generated in production is also being amount of wastewater produced is in line with the amount of
increasingly systematically included in our closed-loop processes. freshwater that we use. Differences in quantities between fresh and
For example, in the Volkswagen Group Components foundry in Kassel, wastewater are the result of, for example, evaporation in cooling
all aluminum chips generated on the site are returned to the cast- towers and during the manufacturing process.
YMONOCE
RALUCRIC
CIRCULAR ECONOMY KPIS
KPI Unit 2022 2021 Notes and comments
CO₂ avoided since 2017 through the Aluminum Closed in metric tons of 633,881 467,671 The calculation of the CO₂ savings
Loop Project CO₂ from the Aluminum Closed Loop was
updated compared with the prior year
because the press shop offcuts were
reassessed.
Proportion of freshwater needed at in million m³/year 15.9 15.8 Passenger cars and light commercial
sites in risk zones vehicles
YMONOCE
RALUCRIC
PEOPLE IN THE
TR ANSFORM ATION
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR A NEW ERA OF SUSTAINABLE the principles of the Volkswagen Group’s labor policy. Together with
MOBILITY the codetermination committees or the employee representatives, we
implement these agreements at the respective sites.
The automotive industry is in the middle of a far-reaching technolog-
ical transformation in order to live up to rising societal expectations, The relevant HR frameworks include:
international treaties and political regulations which require tar-
geted decarbonization of products and business processes. Shifting • The Declaration by the Volkswagen Group on Social Rights, In-
from internal combustion engines to electric drives, digitally connect- dustrial Relations and Business and Human Rights (Social Charter).
ing the car with its environment or autonomous driving do not just Here, we commit to paying all employees the legally required
lead to corresponding increases in revenues and higher value-added national minimum wage that is to be guaranteed, to protecting
shares in software and electric mobility; digitalization and electrifi- the right to privacy, personal safety and freedom of opinion, to
cation as drivers of future technological development also in- the rights of indigenous peoples and to preventing cruel, inhuman
crease knowledge intensity in the sector, with a focus on coding, or degrading treatment. The Social Charter is geared to the conven-
programming and engineering activities. This transition will be tions of the International Labour Organization (ILO). The scope
completed within a decade. This means the whole automotive world of the charter extends to Volkswagen AG and the Volkswagen
is currently in a transformation corridor, at the end of which the Group’s controlled companies. The principles of the Social Charter
role of automotive manufacturers and their suppliers as employers were also integrated as a component of the sustainability require-
and the qualifications needed in the industry will be radically differ- ments in the supply chain and in the Volkswagen Code of Con-
ent from at the start of this process. With our Group People Strategy, duct for Business Partners.
we are setting a course to make this change employee-friendly and
socially acceptable. www.volkswagenag.com > Sustainability > Strategy,
Policy & Engagement > Policy > Declaration on Social Rights
HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
• The Charter on Labour Relations, which sets out additional infor-
The Board Member for Human Resources has overarching respon- mation, consultation and codetermination rights for employee
sibility for all social issues. Within Volkswagen AG, they have a direct representatives of the brands, companies and locations re p-
right to issue instructions in connection with this. Internationally, resented by the Group European Works Council and the Global
the members of the brands’ and regions’ boards of management re- Group Works Council.
sponsible for HR issues have responsibility and report to the Board
Member for Human Resources. The significant management tools • The Charter on Temporary Work, in which Group management
in this context include charters that cover employee issues, Group as well as the Group European Works Council and the Global
and brand policies, and business regulations at company level. As Group Works Council have agreed on principles relating to tem-
part of implementing the NEW AUTO Group strategy, targets are porary work.
defined and worked on at various levels of the Group in the Group
People Strategy. A KPI set was established as a tool to measure • The Charter on Vocational Education and Training, in which
strategic implementation. professional training is anchored as a central part of the Charter
on Labour Relations.
Managing the Transformation and Making It Measurable
Firmly established committee structures facilitate the regular flow
of information and decision-making. SOCIAL CHARTER
The Social Charter provides a binding basis for the
Sustainability Principles as the Foundation of HR Work Volkswagen Group’s social and industrial relations. It is
Volkswagen is a socially responsible employer, which, as a member geared to the conventions of the ILO and applies to
of the UN Global Compact, follows international sustainability frame- Volkswagen AG and the Volkswagen Group’s controlled
works and standards in its HR activities, such as the Sustainable companies.
Development Goals, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and recog-
nized ESG standards. How we conduct our working relationships is
also managed through a number of other charters and declarations In addition, there are a number of locally applicable agreements
that we have agreed with the Group European Works Council and with the relevant responsible trade unions that stipulate, for example,
Global Group Works Council. These give our employees security standards for further training and for preventive healthcare mea-
with regard to their collective rights at the workplace and set out sures. These fundamental standards and agreements underpin the
NOITAMROFSNART
EHT
NI
ELPOEP
rights of employees and their elected representatives at Group level The TRATON SE Works Council can, for example, exercise extensive
in the Group European Works Council and the Global Group Works rights of information and consultation within the framework of a
Council. Executive managers and employee representatives meet participation agreement between the board of management and
regularly to consult on relevant issues. All members of the Group employee representatives. The agreement also regulates the equal
European Works Council and the Global Group Works Council attend representation of employee representatives in the highest body of
at least one joint session of the two works councils every year. TRATON SE – the supervisory board. Scania also has a European
works council with participation rights, the SEC (Scania European
Employee Rights to Participation Committee). In addition, Scania has introduced a global corporate
We want to enable the most comprehensive representation of em- policy that regulates minimum standards such as working hours,
ployee interests possible in our Group. When establishing coopera- weekly rest periods, vacation time and sick leave for its employees.
tive labor relations marked by social harmony, we are guided by uni- Moreover, the Swedish truck brand is an active partner of the
versally valid human rights and the standards of the ILO. Volkswagen Global Deal platform, a multi-stakeholder initiative for social dialog
is committed to global compliance with freedom of association and partnership between governments, companies, employers’
and recognizes the basic right of all employees to form trade unions associations and trade unions.
and workers’ representations. Employees’ right to negative freedom
of association is also respected. The recognition of the right of all em- The Volkswagen Group is aware that ESG-related controversies –
ployees to form trade unions and workers’ representations also in- including with regard to the protection of employee rights – are be-
cludes the value chain and represents a key component of the Social coming increasingly important in investors’ decisions. To make
Charter. Due to different political and legal conditions, it is not possi- how we deal with current and ongoing controversies transparent,
ble to implement the OECD and ILO standards at all Group’s produc- the Group has provided its own information online.
tion sites around the world to the same extent as in the European
Union. Freedom of association is realized in compliance with the www.volkswagenag.com > Investor Relations >
laws applicable in the various countries and locations. A particular Corporate Governance > ESG Controversies
challenge therefore arises in states that have not signed the ILO
Convention on Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE TRANSFORMATION
Organize.
Our aim at Volkswagen is a successful and socially responsible
Our aim is to bridge the tension between the different national con- transformation of the workforce into the new era of sustainable
ditions and the interest in the greatest possible achievement of the mobility. We want to continue to employ the most highly qualified
right to organize. The Volkswagen Group relies here on a long tradi- employees possible in attractive, promising professional fields, to
tion of also organizing company labor relations in countries in pay them competitive salaries, and to provide secure jobs.
which the ILO Convention on Freedom of Association and Protec-
tion of the Right to Organize has not been recognized. Concrete ex- The transformation of the automotive industry, which is driven by
amples include Volkswagen do Brasil Indústria de Veículos Auto- digitalization and electrification, has a significant impact on our
motores Ltda., ŠKODA AUTO Volkswagen India Private Limited and production strategy – and thus on the qualifications needed and
Ducati Motor (Thailand) Co., Ltd., where we pursue a participation the composition of the workforce. Since 2020, we have been convert-
approach that goes well beyond the legal framework. ing more and more vehicle and component plants: from the pro-
duction of vehicles with combustion engines to the production of
Cases of discrimination due to membership of a trade union can be e-vehicles. Examples of this include the ongoing processes of retool-
reported in the Volkswagen Group’s whistleblower system. These ing the plants in Emden, Salzgitter and Hanover and in Chattanooga,
cases have, to date, not been recorded as separate statistics as the re- USA. Electric cars are now being built at 14 Volkswagen Group sites.
cording of discrimination incidents does not differentiate between Although their production is less complex compared with cars with
the causes of the discrimination. internal combustion engines, new fields of employment for highly
qualified workers are emerging as a result of new digital function-
Cooperative Organization of Labor Relations at Brands and alities in the vehicle. Overall, the current structure of Volkswagen’s
Companies workforce does not yet reflect the expected changes; for example,
We cooperate with the relevant trade unions all over the world. Many around half of employees continue to work in manual jobs in pro-
companies in the Group also have a supervisory board on which duction. One core endeavor of our HR strategy is therefore to train
the workforce is represented. In this way, Volkswagen’s Commercial employees from traditional areas of production in the areas of
Vehicle division, with the holding company TRATON SE and its work required along our NEW AUTO Group strategy. It is also to be
subsidiaries MAN, Scania, Navistar and Volkswagen Truck & Bus, expected that the further implementation of the NEW AUTO Group
enables far-reaching participation of employee representatives. strategy and the transformation into a software-driven business
NOITAMROFSNART
EHT
NI
ELPOEP
could lead to asynchronicity in human capital development, for the transformation of the workforce as part of its NEW AUTO Group
which it is vital to prepare. For example, a surplus of staff may arise strategy is defined as one of the central focus topics. We have also
in traditional areas, while a shortage is probable on talent markets embedded the topic in our Group-wide People & Transformation ini-
for tech professions, where businesses such as Volkswagen will tiative. The Group People Strategy, which was adopted by the Group
have to compete with IT businesses. Board of Management in 2021 and is entitled “Transform to Tech,”
plays a key role for our three brand groups. The Volkswagen Group
As a result, the Volkswagen Group workforce is facing a process of also continued with key, successful approaches in its Human Re-
simultaneous recruitment, job cuts and restructuring. This trans- sources policy in the reporting year. These include the pronounced
formation will only be successful if we involve our employees, train stakeholder focus in corporate governance, comprehensive par-
them, prepare them for the forthcoming changes as well as possible, ticipation rights for employees, forward-looking training opportu-
give them a clear perspective and allow them to participate. We also nities, the principle of long-term service through systematic em-
need to preserve our employees’ performance and motivation in ployee retention and remuneration that is fair and transparent.
this modernization process as well as seek to efficiently manage
labor costs in order to stay competitive. At the same time, the Group People Strategy is setting innovative
trends: The employee experience is being systematically improved;
TRANSFORMATION IN HUMAN RESOURCES AS A FOCUS TOPIC teams, as the most important units in the Company’s organization,
OF THE GROUP STRATEGY are being strengthened, and modern forms of working such as
agile working are set to be expanded. In this way, we want to increase
The responsibility for “people in the transformation” is at the core our employer attractiveness and raise our organization’s per-
of our current and future activities in human resources. However, formance.
this responsibility extends beyond this: For the Volkswagen Group,
OUR APPROACH: FOUR DIMENSIONS OF THE “TRANSFORM TO TECH” GROUP PEOPLE STRATEGY
We@Volkswagen and the world around us Aligned with society & the environment
All of us@Volkswagen Outstanding culture & sense of belonging
Teams@Volkswagen Best-performing teams
Me@Volkswagen Excellent employee experience
NOITAMROFSNART
EHT
NI
ELPOEP
In our Group People Strategy we have identified different dimen- Dual vocational training at the Volkswagen Group supports the
sions with the aim of addressing employees’ needs and expectations workforce transformation. With its flexible combination of practi-
in a holistic manner. Together, these four dimensions make up the cal activities and theoretical knowledge, vocational training pre-
work experience, job satisfaction and, ultimately, the success of the pares our young professionals for the forthcoming challenges. On
work and the Group’s integration into society. an international level, we are guided by the high German training
standards. In 2022, the Volkswagen Group trained 16,590 people.
• Me@Volkswagen We also support the career development of new entrants once
• Teams@Volkswagen they have completed their apprenticeship. For example, particu-
• All of us@Volkswagen larly talented young specialists are nurtured in talent groups.
• We@Volkswagen and the world around us
In particular, we are broadening the knowledge base for the digital
Through our initiatives and programs in these four dimensions, we transformation in the Group with the Faculty 73 program. We train
are targeting an improvement in the individual and group-related software developers here for our own needs. The two-year training
work situations at Volkswagen and also taking the Volkswagen program is designed for employees and external applicants with an
Group’s cultural cohesion and social legitimacy into consideration. affinity for IT. The future experts acquire all the necessary skills for
a successful career as a software developer in the automotive in-
1. INITIATIVES IN THE ME@VOLKSWAGEN DIMENSION dustry within the training. Since Faculty 73 was introduced (in
2019), 186 junior software developers have already successfully
We want to systematically improve the employee experience and completed this training program. The people who have completed
are striving to ensure that all employees have the best possible con- the program are primarily employed in the Group and brand IT
ditions in which to do their job. That starts with excellent equipment departments and the Technical Development and CARIAD depart-
and tools, continues via the avoidance of red tape and overly com- ments. In December 2022, a fourth year of trainees began this inno-
plex process steps through state-of-the-art workspaces, 360-degree vative transformation program – the largest group to date with
feedback opportunities, individual health coaching and personally 200 colleagues.
tailored advanced training opportunities.
Volkswagen AG, CARIAD and Skoda supported the establishment
Transformation-Oriented Human Capital Development and operation of innovative programming schools in Wolfsburg,
As an employer, we want our employees to be able to work creating Berlin and Prague in cooperation with the non-profit École 42. In
value at workplaces in our Group for their entire working lives. This the reporting period, Volkswagen made donations amounting to
requires not just for them to retain their health, but also adjusting €3 million. To date, more than 400 students have been admitted to
skills and capabilities to the quickly changing environment. That is learn from and with each other in accordance with an innovative
why training our employees and adjustment to new work and career training concept. Like at École 42 in Paris, the free training is also
profiles is a key action area in the workforce transformation. The open to applicants who have not graduated high school or college,
electrification of the vehicle fleet, the transition towards connected, irrespective of their age, sex or origin.
autonomous driving and the digital transformation of our Group
mean that employees currently need very different qualifications. At the Volkswagen Group Academy, which is responsible for voca-
We handle these changes through our comprehensive vocational tional and advanced training, skilled workers can choose from a
and advanced training system with individual training measures. broad range of advanced training courses. These range from further
training on topics of the future and occupational or cross-disci-
In the current upheaval of the automotive industry, the Volkswagen plinary areas of general interest to specific qualifications in voca-
Group’s particular training focus is on training employees on im- tional groups and even comprehensive personnel development
portant future technologies and closely supporting them in the programs.
transformation process. For example, Volkswagen specifically added
courses on the topic of e-mobility to its professional training pro-
gram at the site in Chattanooga, USA, with the aid of the Volkswagen
Group Academy. It largely comprises the two program lines high-
voltage qualification and automation qualification, which have had
more than 3,000 participants since their launch. From the middle of
the reporting year, the program was transferred to the regular train-
ing structures.
NOITAMROFSNART
EHT
NI
ELPOEP
Degreed, the innovative learning platform that we have established, personal skills and compare these with the development opportuni-
will open up a wide range of further training opportunities for our ties in the Group. Various methods of self-reflection or assessment by
employees. The platform creates a simple, individual learning expe- others, practical exercises, literature recommendations and pod-
rience and will be progressively rolled out in the Group. Degreed is casts are also offered in a toolkit.
aimed at supporting the results of strategic HR planning with appro-
priate training programs. Another focus is developing important In our extensive training measures, we set store by an overarching
skills – for example, in areas such as data analytics, software devel- system and uniform standards. This also applies to the leadership
opment, leadership, machine learning and artificial intelligence. The and management programs we currently use, which are summa-
“Individual career orientation” (ICO) module offers all Volkswagen AG rized in the following overview.
employees the opportunity to reflect on career goals, interests and
Program Participating brands and Target audience
companies¹
Foreman base training (FBT) VW AG, MAN Truck & Bus Foreman
The FBT teaches the basic skills necessary for performing the work of a foreman.
The participants optimize the management of their own foremanship, are
strengthened in their foreman role and expand their leadership skills. They
experience their own behavior in real management situations and learn to reflect
on themselves even better.
Manager base training (MBT) VW AG Subsection manager
In the MBT, participants get to know the relevant management tools and successfully
use them situationally within Volkswagen AG’s value system. The MBT also includes
content on reflection on your own management style.
Management development program VW AG, CARIAD Management candidates
The management development program for prospective managers focuses on
diversity, business management and personal responsibility. Two new modules train
prospective managers on agility in management and on day-to-day management.
Senior management program VW AG, VW Commercial Vehicles, Newly appointed members
The Group-wide senior management program provides experienced managers with AUDI AG, Porsche AG, of senior management
knowledge from research and practice with focuses on customer focus, innova- Bentley Motors, CARIAD, ŠKODA
tion and leadership, supplemented by learning content including design thinking
methods, tools such as Triple Impact and Lean Canvas, and decision biases.
Group training catalog Audi, Porsche, Bentley, Management,
A decentralized catalog of training and qualifications that have been conceptually CARIAD, SEAT, MAN, Scania, senior management,
designed by the individual brands and can be used by other brands. For example, the TRATON SE, VW AG, top management
Group Leadership Academy provides seminars that support and inspire management VW Commercial Vehicles
in the transformation of the Group with the Group Training Catalog for Leadership
and Transformation. For example, the “Building a sustainable organization. Together.”
training teaches how sustainability can be factored into operational management
decisions.
Transform Leadership 2030 program VW AG Management,
The Transform Leadership 2030 program provides the opportunity to explore all the and guests from other senior management,
aspects of the transformation in dialog with experts and members of the Board of brands and companies top management
Management in eight core modules and, in particular, to deepen technology-specific
knowledge.
1 To improve readability, subsidiaries and microenterprises have not been mentioned.
Opinion Survey Measures Employee Satisfaction Group stands on the topic of integrity and how they assess working
We attach great importance to actively involving our employees in relationships in the Group. The results of the Opinion Survey help
processes and to ensuring that their opinions, assessments and us to identify possible improvements and inform managers of where
criticism are heard. That is why we conduct the Opinion Survey each action needs to be taken in their organizational units. In defined
year. In this employee survey, in which 159 companies of the Group follow-up processes, managers take suitable measures in dialog
took part in 2022, we measure the status of our internal employer with their employees. The Opinion Survey’s Group team supports
attractiveness with a targeted question. In addition, we are also them in this with various tools – such as a method toolbox.
interested in our employees’ views on the questions of where the
NOITAMROFSNART
EHT
NI
ELPOEP
The regular communication with managers on the measures de- 2. INITIATIVES IN THE TEAMS@VOLKSWAGEN DIMENSION
rived and their implementation status takes place using a top-down
approach, beginning with the respective division manager/Board High-performance teams in the Volkswagen Group are groups
member and proceeding to the lowest management level. The aim that trust each other, have a common goal and can rely on each
is to ensure the implementation of the measures derived from the other, yet also discuss matters critically and speak their minds. As
organizational units in a lasting manner. our transformation takes shape, the way in which teams in the
Volkswagen Group collaborate is fundamentally changing. Hybrid
In 2022, the survey covered 159 companies in 49 countries. Of the digital forms of collaboration are becoming more important. They
614,142 employees in the companies surveyed, 475,778 participated. require modern office environments that simplify collaborative,
This is equivalent to a response rate of 77%. The employee satisfac- flexible work. The same applies to opportunities for digital collabo-
tion index, which is calculated from 22 questions, is the principal ration – an aspect that the Covid-19 pandemic has reinforced.
indicator of the Opinion Survey. It is calculated from the total of all
the related answers in the survey and, in 2022, stood at 82.4 out of a Transition to Hybrid Work Formats
possible total of 100 index points in the Volkswagen Group (2021: Hybrid working – a combination of remote working and working
82.3 index points) and at 76.2 index points in Volkswagen AG on-site – gives employees greater flexibility in terms of when and
(2021: 76.2 index points). The result of the employee satisfaction where they work and is increasingly becoming the norm for the
index influences the level of the annual bonus as part of the vari- Volkswagen Group. In the reporting period, we again refined and ex-
able remuneration for the Board of Management. panded virtual and hybrid communication and collaboration, as well
as new formats of knowledge transfer and training. Major topics in-
In 2022, the score on the employee cluded:
satisfaction index in the Volkswagen Group was
• Drafting and expanding the company agreements on remote
82.4 out of 100 working at AUDI AG and Volkswagen AG
• Maintaining mental health and strengthening the management
culture and culture of trust (Culture and Change Factory) in light
possible index points and thus slightly of the changing world of work
above the score in the previous year.
In addition, we continued developing the Guide for Digital and
Hybrid Collaboration, which is intended to provide guidance on
Successfully Contributing Their Own Ideas successful communication and organization for employees, managers
Through their creativity, knowledge and initiative, employees take and teams. We also continued working on the Office 2025 initiative,
on responsibility for improving processes and products and ulti- which is to be used to advance the modernization of the office and
mately help us to achieve our sustainability goals. In 2022, 13,953 working environment within Volkswagen AG. Office 2025 pursues
ideas were submitted as part of idea management, and savings of a holistic perspective and takes the categories of people, space and
around €38 million were achieved at Volkswagen AG’s sites. technology into consideration. In addition we promote the mod-
ernization of digital infrastructure, opportunities for collaboration
In addition, Volkswagen AG supports the development of business and social spaces within Volkswagen AG’s production areas through
ideas fit for the future with its own separate innovation fund. The the modernization fund, which distributes an average of €25 million
associated “intrapreneurship” program offers employees the oppor- per year at the request of the plants and departments. The size of the
tunity to implement their own business ideas at Volkswagen and fund is €125 million over a term of five years.
expand the existing portfolio of services and products. It consists
of an incubator phase for developing a business plan and an accel- The flexibility that new forms of working bring has a positive im-
erator phase for constructing prototypes and customer tests. Under pact on work/life balance. Information on strategies, measures and
an agreement between IG Metall and Volkswagen AG, the Group programs on this topic is summarized in the chapter on the focus
makes €20 million available to the fund each year for projects in topic of diversity.
new areas of business.
Diversity
NOITAMROFSNART
EHT
NI
ELPOEP
Promoting Agility and Cultural Change Social Compatibility of the Transformation in Focus
The Volkswagen Group attaches particular importance to its em- Collective job security agreements play an important role in the
ployees being able to act with agility and entrepreneurial drive. To- transformation. In Volkswagen AG in Germany, the job security ap-
gether with 30 publicly traded large companies from Germany, plies until 2029 as a result of the Digital Transformation Roadmap,
Austria and Switzerland, we developed a skills matrix for training which underlines our appreciation for industrial work.
and professional development in the area of agile business processes
under the umbrella of the DACH30 initiative. In the course of this, We also strive to act in a socially responsible way anywhere we have
the Volkswagen Group Academy established a training portfolio to cut jobs for economic reasons. For example, as it did many other
on agility. companies, the coronavirus pandemic also challenged Volkswagen
do Brasil to reduce fixed costs. Volkswagen do Brasil, metalworker
In order to actively support divisions, departments and project teams trade unions and employee representatives of all four plants
with implementing strategic realignments, the Culture & Change came together to negotiate a restructuring agreement. In addition
Factory was founded at Volkswagen in 2021. This area, which is under to cost-cutting, it was also a matter of applying flexibility mea-
the umbrella of the Group Academy, supports and steers various sures and adjusting the headcount through a program of volun-
transformation projects with around 40 experts. The team’s exper- tary resignations.
tise includes change management, culture change, agile training,
coaching, process design and continuing training. At MAN Truck & Bus SE, partial retirement contracts, termination
agreements, a change of Group and the establishment of a transfer
3. INITIATIVES IN THE ALL OF US@VOLKSWAGEN DIMENSION company were used as tools for the socially responsible headcount
reduction that was also necessary there. The basis for this was the
The Volkswagen Group Essentials define the shared underlying negotiation of a joint key issues paper between the company’s man-
values across all of the Group’s brands and companies. Seven simple agement and the employee representatives. The corresponding
“We” statements describe what the Group stands for: “We take on rules and programs that were implemented in 2021 continue to ap-
responsibility for the environment and society,” “We are honest and ply until 2023.
speak up when something is wrong,” “We break new ground,” “We
live diversity,” “We are proud of the work we do,” “We not me,” “We We provide the HR answers to various challenges at a national or
keep our word.” international level with future-proofing programs that we have
concluded as part of codetermination. For example, Germany and
We want our corporate culture to create a feeling of belonging for other parts of Western Europe face not only risks resulting from
our workforce – a feeling that increases in importance in particular demographic changes but continue to face shortages of skilled
in times of change and in an environment that is becoming increas- workers who we will need for cutting-edge areas of work.
ingly diverse. We see fair remuneration as an important part of our
self-image. It is intended to motivate and express our appreciation Fair and Transparent Pay
for the performance of each individual. And last but not least, we A fair and transparent pay system and payment of fair remunera-
need to empower our leaders to contribute to a successful transfor- tion make a significant contribution to employees’ work satisfac-
mation and act as role models. tion. In accordance with our Social Charter, the remuneration and
fringe benefits for our employees correspond at least to the legally
Leading by Example As a Manager required minimum level which is to be guaranteed in the particular
Role models motivate, give people courage for change and create country. As they are collectively agreed with trade unions, our rates
trust. These are key factors for successfully working together. The of pay are usually higher than the prevailing minimum levels. Our
role model program supports managers in strengthening these fac- employees are generally selected, hired and promoted on the basis
tors. Concise catalogs give managers suggestions and instructions of their qualifications, experience and abilities. Individual pay is
for different activities that can be implemented easily and without generally based on the job performed.
any additional budget. The binding framework with minimum
requirements for managers supports implementation of this pro-
gram to improve the corporate culture.
NOITAMROFSNART
EHT
NI
ELPOEP
Employees of Group companies enjoy further Company benefits. • Internal Employer Attractiveness: The indicator is derived by
Depending on location, these may include subsidized transport asking respondents as part of the Opinion Survey, which is con-
and meals, employee terms at cooperation partners and discounts ducted for the majority of our Group workforce, whether they
on certain leisure activities. Additional healthcare or supplementary perceive their respective company as an attractive employer. The
pension benefits may round off the range of company benefits Volkswagen Group’s target for 2025 is 89.1 out of a possible total of
at specific sites. By offering occupational pension schemes, 100 index points. 86.6 index points were achieved in the reporting
Volkswagen AG and many of its brands and subsidiaries make an im- year, i.e., the intermediate target for 2022 of 88.7 index points
portant contribution towards securing their employees’ income in was missed. 86.8 points were achieved in the previous year. For
old age. Employee participation in the Company’s success in the Volkswagen AG, the value for 2022 was 87.1 index points (2021:
form of an employee share program – such as a stock option plan – 87.7 points).
is not currently offered.
• Diversity Index: As part of our Group-wide diversity manage-
4. I NITIATIVES IN THE WE@VOLKSWAGEN AND THE WORLD ment, in this strategic indicator we report on the trends in the
AROUND US DIMENSION proportion of women in management and the internationaliza-
tion of top management, in each case as a percentage of the ac-
The Volkswagen Group employs more than 675,805 people, of whom tive workforce1 globally. In particular, this indicator underpins
more than 116,677 at Volkswagen AG. We work in 35 countries in the objective of the human resources strategy, which is aimed at
Europe and 37 countries in North and South America, Asia, Australia contributing to an exemplary leadership and corporate culture.
and Africa and operate 119 production sites around the world. In
all theses places, we assume responsibility for the employees and Diversity
their families, but also for social and economic development around
our sites. • Strategic HR Planning Implementation Status: Strategic HR plan-
ning supplements operational HR planning by adding a qualita-
We are aware that without long-term social legitimacy at our loca- tive, long-term and strategic planning perspective. It allows us to
tions and in our markets, we will not be able to continue our business identify qualitative and quantitative surpluses and shortfalls in
model in times of accelerated changes in values – this applies from the business units at an early stage and derives necessary qualifi-
an economic, environmental and social perspective. We see our cation, training and restructuring requirements, the implemen-
employees as representatives of the Volkswagen Group who com- tation of which helps to support the transformation. To map prog-
municate our values to society. Together with them, we also assume ress in strategic HR planning, we will measure the percentage of
responsibility above and beyond our core business – such as through the workforce taken into account in the strategic HR planning
foundation work and corporate volunteering. The topics of our social from 2023.
engagement activities range from education, diversity, a culture of
remembrance, culture, climate and environmental protection • Number of Training Hours per Employee: Due to the transforma-
through various site commitments. More information on this is tion in the automotive industry, we are facing the biggest process of
available in the Corporate Citizenship chapter. change in expertise and cultural change in the history of the
Group. As a result, individual opportunities for change for em-
Corporate Citizenship ployees are becoming an enhancing important success factor.
Volkswagen is increasing access to training by leveraging econo-
MANAGING THE TRANSFORMATION AND MAKING IT mies of scale in connection with digitalization and through the De-
MEASURABLE greed platform. The goal is to increase the average number of
training hours per employee in the Volkswagen Group – based on
The transformation means that we are on a long-term path of the active workforce1 – by 35% to 30.0 hours per year by 2030. The
change and renewal. It is important to us to keep checking whether baseline value is 22.3 hours and represents the average for the
we are keeping to the course we have set out on and are achieving years 2015 to 2019. The years 2015–2019 were chosen as the base-
our goals. The Group People Strategy’s strategic KPIs help us to line due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, which tempo-
measure our progress and take countermeasures where necessary: rarily curtailed training activities in 2020 and 2021. The target
for the reporting year was 22.0 hours. An average of 19.9 hours
per employee meant it was not achieved.
1 Definition of active workforce: total workforce not including trainees or employees in the passive phase of semi-retirement. In addition, when compiling the data for the diversity index
and within the framework of the German Act on the Equal Participation of Women and Men in Leadership Positions (Gesetz zur gleichberechtigten Teilhabe von Frauen und Männern an
Führungspositionen), an adjustment is made for employees in the withdrawal phase of the Time Asset scheme (Time Asset scheme: time credits from deferred compensation).
NOITAMROFSNART
EHT
NI
ELPOEP
PREVENTIVE HEALTH AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY At Volkswagen AG, the maintenance, promotion and restoration of
our employees’ mental health are defined premises of our strategic
Particularly in the transformation, ensuring a safe and healthy focus and are anchored not only in the internal “Health 2025+”
working environment is a significant component of sustainable agenda of the Volkswagen Health department but also in the “Men-
corporate governance and an important building block of employer tal Health” position paper and in the Volkswagen Group’s Occupa-
attractiveness. In the area of health, sustainability means for us tional Health and Safety Policy.
that we want to help all employees to retire healthy. This long-term
approach also helps our Group to cope with demographic change, Safety First Strategy
which is now typical of many industrial countries. Sustainable occupational safety means for us that employees do
not suffer accidents when working. Volkswagen is supporting this ob-
MANAGEMENT AT GROUP LEVEL jective through the Safety First strategy. The vision of this strategy is
to anchor “safety first” as a guiding principle in the actions of all
Health care is managed at Group level by the Head of Group Occupa- managers and employees. All occupational safety processes are to
tional Health and Safety, who is also Volkswagen AG’s senior physi- be known and to be applied reliably. Workplaces are to be safe and
cian. They report directly to the Board Member for Human Resources, the Occupational Safety department is to be involved in shaping
reporting to the latter on the topics of health and occupational safe- them. All managers and employees are to be informed and trained
ty. The Group Steering Committee for Health and the Group Steer- and act in line with safety requirements. At Group level, occupational
ing Committee for Occupational Safety make decisions on strategic health and safety form part of the Code of Conduct, on which the
direction and coordinate topics of fundamental importance across Group’s employees are trained regularly. At Volkswagen AG, compul-
brands. In addition, the steering committees initiate projects, en- sory web-based training on occupational health and safety was
sure that expert knowledge is made transparent, and leverage syn- rolled out for managers in the reporting year. The Safety First strat-
ergies in health care and occupational safety. Compliance with legal egy requires all Volkswagen Group production sites to comply with
requirements, the identification and assessment of work-related the standards of ISO 45001 occupational health and safety manage-
risks, the derivation of measures and checking effectiveness form the ment systems.
basis for successful occupational health and safety and thus make a
positive contribution to keeping employees healthy as part of society. PREVENTIVE MEASURES
The spread of the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 underscores the great im- The implementation of the Safety First strategy is followed up in
portance of effective occupational health protection to protect em- the Group Steering Committee for Occupational Safety by means of
ployees and reduce the risk of process disruptions and production reports on progress and measures taken by the brands and companies,
stoppages. and an exchange of experiences supported. In the area of health, in
addition to meeting statutory requirements, the Volkswagen Group
STRATEGIC DIRECTION focuses to a large extent on preventive approaches. For example,
employees are offered regular checkups. As part of the discussion of
Guidelines and Policies Regulate Occupational Health and Safety the checkup findings, employees are offered customized healthcare
A Group policy regulates the responsibility for occupational health services based on current scientific knowledge. However, the pan-
and safety uniformly for all the Group’s brands and companies. The demic meant it was only possible to maintain these services to a
Occupational Health and Safety Policy was revised in 2022. By doing restricted degree in the reporting year. To further improve the
this, the Volkswagen Group’s Board of Management underscored services, employee feedback on the checkup and the practical expe-
the importance of occupational health and safety while complying riences of employees in the Health department are continuously
with national and international regulations. Our aim here is to en- incorporated and a Checkup 2.0 project team was established in the
sure the protection and promotion of physical and mental health, reporting year.
taking into account psychosocial risks and their effects. We believe
in providing employees with health care that is above the standard
set by law in the country in question.
NOITAMROFSNART
EHT
NI
ELPOEP
MEASURING EFFECTIVENESS The accident frequency index provides information on the num-
ber of accidents at work as a proportion of the total of all hours
To evaluate the Group companies’ current performance in occupa- worked. It is calculated as the number of accidents at work reported
tional health and safety, in the reporting year the Volkswagen Group x 1 million divided by total number of hours worked. In 2022, the
conducted a risk analysis based on self assessments at the level of the accident frequency was 3.7 (2021: 3.7), and in Volkswagen AG it was
companies. For example, we were able to identify improvement po- 6.3 (2021: 6.8). The Group uses a Group process standard to provide
tential and introduce measures to reduce sustainability-related risks. cross-brand information in the event of serious or fatal accidents
The content of the risk analysis focused on the topics of external involving our own employees or workers from partner firms. On
certification, organization, safety standards for workplaces, work this basis, measures can be taken to prevent similar accidents across
equipment, workstations and protective measures, training and in- all our sites in the future. The Volkswagen Group recorded one fatal
struction, and emergency planning. The implementation of require- accident involving our own employees in the reporting year.
ments and compliance with standards is audited in a risk-based Group
audit program on occupational health and safety. Two Group au- In fiscal year 2022, the Health department carried out 548 initial
dits were conducted in the 2022 reporting year. and 2,398 subsequent checkups in Volkswagen AG. Since the intro-
duction of the service in 2010, a total of 84,799 Volkswagen check-
At the end of 2022, a total of ups have been completed (active workforce).
61
Volkswagen Group sites were certified
in accordance with ISO 45001.
Collecting key figures is a core element for assessing the effectiveness
of our measures. At the end of 2022, a total of 61 (2021: 48) Group
sites were certified in accordance with ISO 45001. This corresponds
to coverage of 27% of the Volkswagen Group’s employees. In addition
to the number of ISO 45001 certificates and their level of coverage,
the Volkswagen Group uses the accident frequency for employees,
excluding temporary agency workers, as a key performance indica-
tor for reporting.
NOITAMROFSNART
EHT
NI
ELPOEP
PEOPLE IN THE TRANSFORMATION KPIS
KPI Unit 2022 2021 Notes and comments
Number of countries in which the Volkswagen Group is
active by continent
Europe number 35 35
North and South America, Africa, Asia, Australia number 37 37
Production facilities worldwide number 119 120
of which Volkswagen AG production facilities number 6 6
Number of employees in the Volkswagen Group
by continent
Europe number 490,777 492,559
The Americas number 73,236 71,192
Africa number 5,702 5,842
Asia number 104,574 101,726
Australia number 1,516 1,470
Total workforce (of which Volkswagen AG) number 675,805 672,789
(116,677) (117,633)
Number of employees in the Volkswagen Group by type
of work
Fixed-term employees number 25,536 – Recorded in the Sustainability Report
for the first time in the 2022 reporting
year
Permanent employees number 650,269 – Recorded in the Sustainability Report
for the first time in the 2022 reporting
year
Temporary agency workers number 26,171 – Recorded in the Sustainability Report
for the first time in the 2022 reporting
year
Apprentices number 16,590 17,151
in Volkswagen AG number 4,452 – Recorded in the Sustainability Report
for the first time in the 2022 reporting
year
Employee age structure in the Volkswagen Group Women/ Women/
men men
< 20 years old in % 0.3/1.2 0.3/1.3
20–29 years old in % 3.4/12.2 3.4/13.0
30–39 years old in % 5.6/25.0 5.5/24.9
40–49 years old in % 4.7/21.1 4.7/21.0
50–59 years old in % 3.4/17.8 3.3/17.6
> 60 years old in % 0.7/4.6 0.7/4.4
Proportion of women in the Volkswagen Group
Total management in % 16.8 15.9
Total apprentices in % 20.3 20.1 Excluding Scania and Navistar
Volkswagen Group, total in % 18.1 17.9
NOITAMROFSNART
EHT
NI
ELPOEP
KPI Unit 2022 2021 Notes and comments
Proportion of women in Volkswagen AG
Total management in % 15.9 14.7
Total apprentices in % 25.0 – Recorded in the Sustainability Report for
the first time in the 2022 reporting year
Volkswagen AG, total in % 18.3 17.9
Staff turnover at Volkswagen AG
Women in % 0.5 0.5
Men in % 0.6 0.5
Opinion Survey
Participating companies number 159 165
Participating countries number 49 40
Eligible employees number 614,142 596,905
Participating employees number 475,778 466,021
Percentage of participating employees in % 77 78
Internal employer attractiveness index score 86.6 86.8
Internal employer attractiveness in index score 87.1 87.7
Volkswagen AG
Employee satisfaction index index score 82.4 82.3
Employee satisfaction index in Volkswagen AG index score 76.2 76.2
Idea management at Volkswagen AG
Ideas submitted number 13,953 12,631
Savings in € million 38.0 37.6
Training¹
in the Volkswagen Group
Training hours per employee average number of 19.9 20.9
hours
Time million hours 12.8 13.9
Training costs in € million 398.6 – Recorded in the Sustainability Report for
the first time in the 2022 reporting year
Training costs per employee average cost in € 619.4 – Recorded in the Sustainability Report for
the first time in the 2022 reporting year
1 Change in methodology: Figure from 2022 relates to the active workforce. Figure for 2021 relates to the entire workforce. Definition of active workforce: total workforce not including
trainees or employees in the passive phase of semi-retirement.
NOITAMROFSNART
EHT
NI
ELPOEP
2 Scope: The following sites are not included in the Group assessment in the reporting year: the four Scania Service Centers (Johannesburg, Narasapura, Kuala Lumpur, Taoyuan City); two MAN
Truck & Bus sites (Serendah, St. Petersburg); one site in China (Suzhou), two other sites still currently under construction in China (a vehicle plant in Changchun and another component plant
in Hefei with planned production start in 2023/2024); and the six Navistar sites.
NOITAMROFSNART
EHT
NI
ELPOEP
KPI Unit 2022 2021 Notes and comments
in Volkswagen AG
Training hours per employee average number of 10.6 9.9
hours
Time million hours 1.1 1.2
Training costs in € million 91.1 – Recorded in the Sustainability Report for
the first time in the 2022 reporting year
Training costs per employee average cost in € 861.9 – Recorded in the Sustainability Report for
the first time in the 2022 reporting year
Preventive health and occupational safety²
Initial checkups by the Health department number 548 10
Subsequent checkups by the Health department number 2,398 38
Total Volkswagen AG checkups since 2010 number 84,799 86,027
Volkswagen Group sites certified in accordance number 61 48
with ISO 45001
Proportion of these in terms of number of in % 27 29
employees
Volkswagen AG sites certified in accordance number 2 – Certification for the six Volkswagen
with ISO 45001 AG sites is scheduled to be achieved
by 2024.
Proportion of these in terms of number of in % 19.8 – Recorded in the Sustainability Report for
employees the first time in the 2022 reporting year
Accidents reported² Temporary agency workers and
internal commuting accidents not
included in the KPI. Absence days are
included through December 31 of
the respective fiscal year.
Index of accident frequency in the Volkswagen value 3.7 3.7
Group
Index of accident frequency in Volkswagen AG value 6.3 6.8
DIVERSIT Y
CRUCIAL IMPORTANCE OF DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION The Volkswagen Group has also underscored its commitment to di-
versity in Germany by its signature of and financial support for
Especially during the transformation, our HR policy’s core tasks in- the Diversity Charter initiative and through Chefsache – a network
clude creating a working environment in which talent of any age or of managers from business, academia, the public sector and the
gender, irrespective of origin and cultural background, can opti- media for promoting equal opportunities for women and men.
mally contribute skills and viewpoints. The basis for this is an open,
positive and partnership-based culture, a high level of diversity in Antidiscrimination
the workforce and exemplary and inspiring leadership. Diversity, We at Volkswagen strongly reject discrimination. This is because
respect, tolerance and equality of opportunity are critical success we stand for respect, for equal opportunities, for working together
factors for an open corporate culture. It increases employee motiva- and for equal treatment of people, irrespective of their ethnicity,
tion and performance as well as our customers’ satisfaction. race, gender, disability, ideology, religion, nationality, sexual orien-
tation, social background or political beliefs, provided the latter are
DIVERSITY MANAGEMENT ESTABLISHED ACROSS THE GROUP based on democratic principles and tolerance towards those who
hold different views. The Volkswagen Group Code of Conduct
Group diversity management is directly assigned to the member of provides guidance throughout the Group and we sanction any
the Volkswagen Group Board of Management with responsibility breaches of the rules set out in it. Under the code, every employee
for Human Resources and reports to this individual. More than and manager is responsible for ensuring that colleagues work to-
85 diversity managers are working on the topic in the Volkswagen gether in partnership and for taking action if rules are breached.
Group. They meet at an annual diversity convention to promote We also keep central statistics on this: In 2022, 14 Volkswagen
the sharing of best practices and to discuss the implementation of Group employees were dismissed due to breaches in the area of
programs and action. discrimination, harassment or stalking.1
INTEGRATION INTO GROUP STRATEGY TARGETS FOR MORE DIVERSITY
Diversity was defined as a focus topic for sustainability as part of More Diversity in the Volkswagen Group’s Management
the NEW AUTO Group strategy and Group initiative 6, which was We not only want to establish processes geared to equal opportuni-
derived from it. We have enshrined the topic of diversity and equal ties but also aim to set targets for measures and programs at all levels
opportunities in the HR Compliance Group policy. The particular im- of management. Our diversity approach centers around quotas for
portance of this action area is further underpinned in the Volkswagen women in managerial positions and targets for the internationality
Group by the fact that the diversity index as a strategic KPI has of our top management. These two figures are combined in our
acquired direct remuneration relevance at Group Board of Man- diversity index, which has been in force since January 1, 2017. The
agement level. diversity index forms part of our Group People Strategy and data
are collected for the whole Volkswagen Group with its active work-
We have also set out the aim of diverse workforces in key documents. force.2 With this index, we manage measures and assess the extent
The declaration “We live diversity” as one of the seven Group Essen- to which they have been implemented.
tials is thus a firm part of the Volkswagen Group’s cultural DNA. Our
understanding of diversity extends beyond gender equality, sexual
orientation and internationality. For example, we also focus on the
DIVERSITY INDEX
inclusion and integration of employees with disabilities.
The diversity index tracks the changes in the proportion
of women in management and the internationalization of
Stakeholder Engagement through the Diversity Panel and
top management, in each case as a percentage of the
Diversity Charter
active workforce² globally.
The Volkswagen Group created an advisory committee in the form
of the Diversity Panel in 2021. The panel includes experts from civil
society, business and academia but also high-ranking managers
from various areas of the Group. The aim is to raise awareness of The proportion of women in management positions – comprising
discriminatory content and conduct and enhance in-house skills to line management, senior management and top management (includ-
systematically counteract everyday discrimination and racism. ing members of the Group Board of Management) – was 17.2% in
The panel met twice in the reporting year and issued concrete rec- 2022, which is significantly above the previous year’s level. We aim
ommendations for action regarding organization, processes and to raise this figure to 20.2% by 2025.
activities in the Group.
1 Basis: 110 companies, each with more than 500 employees.
2 Definition of active workforce: total workforce not including trainees or employees in the passive phase of semi-retirement. In addition, when compiling the data for the diversity index
and within the framework of the German Act on the Equal Participation of Women and Men in Leadership Positions (Gesetz zur gleichberechtigten Teilhabe von Frauen und Männern an
Führungspositionen), an adjustment is made for employees in the withdrawal phase of the Time Asset scheme (Time Asset scheme: time credits from deferred compensation).
YTISREVID
We aim to increase the level of internationalization in top manage- The program includes mandatory training for managers, from fore-
ment, the uppermost of our three management tiers, to 25.0% by men to top managers. The training participants develop an under-
2025. In the past fiscal year this was 23.4% (2021: 20.3%).³ standing of why diversity and inclusion are important for the
Group, what design approaches and activities can be developed and
The figures for the proportion of women and internationalization what responsibility as a manager means in concrete terms. Managers
are each included with equal weighting in an index that was set to are primarily to be supported and encouraged in avoiding un-
100 in each case for 2016. Both indices were included in equal pro- conscious bias – i.e., unconscious prejudice and stereotypes – in their
portions when setting targets and in the compilation of the overall decisions. 94% of managers from companies with more than
index (proportion of women figure and top management interna- 1,000 employees had been trained across the Group and around the
tionalization figure). An increase in this index to 136 was planned world by December 31, 2022. Participation in the training is
for 2022. This target was beaten with a figure of 140. The targets are tracked.
decided by the Group Board of Management.
Programs for Greater Equality of Opportunity
Pursuing Goals for Increasing the Proportion in Career Development
of Women at Volkswagen AG By offering various programs, we are aiming at increasing the pro-
We have also formulated goals as regards the proportion of women portion of women at management levels within the Group and at
in management for Volkswagen AG in accordance with section 76 (4) ensuring greater equality of opportunity and equal rights in career
of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz – AktG). In line development. The Volkswagen AG-wide Kompass-2.0 program pro-
with the German Act on the Equal Participation of Women and Men vides female talent with guidance and a decision aid for starting a
in Leadership Positions (Gesetz zur gleichberechtigten Teilhabe von management or leadership career and is also aimed at production
Frauen und Männern an Führungspositionen) and section 76 (4) of the workers. The program centers around a nine-month period of men-
German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz – AktG), Volkswagen AG toring accompanied by networking days, dialog events, seminars
set targets for the period until the end of 2025 of 16.5% for the propor- and feedback meetings. A total of 229 employees started the pro-
tion of women in the active workforce2 at the first level of manage- gram in 2022.
ment (senior management, top management and brand board of
management) and 23.4% for the second level (line management). As In order to achieve a sustainable increase in the proportion of women
of December 31, 2022, the proportion of women in the active work- in management, we continuously work on the further integration
force2 at the first level of management was 14.2%, and at the second of diversity and gender equality into HR processes. Volkswagen AG
level of management it was 19.7%. The Group’s Board of Management also offers managers the option of job sharing. In addition, there
and Supervisory Board are regularly updated on the progress we is an impat program aimed at top talent of non-German origin and
are making toward these targets. both genders, who take on responsibility at the first level of man-
agement at the Group’s head office. This ensures greater visibility
PROGRAMS AND OPTIONS of international managers, leverages their expertise and pro-
motes Group-wide networking.
Diversity Wins@Volkswagen: Global Training Initiative for
Managers The Volkswagen Group actively participates in the Target Gender
Through our diversity management and the implementation of Equality program, which was set up by the UN Global Compact
the Diversity Wins@Volkswagen program, we want to deliberately and targets increased gender equality. The program is based on the
expand approaches for promoting diversity and inclusion. We UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. These provide all companies
pursue a holistic approach that considers diversity in its overriding with guidance on how they can promote the empowerment of
importance for businesses and society and does not give priority women and gender equality in the workplace, in business and in
to the needs of any particular group. society. The program is also accompanied by workshops each fo-
cusing on different issues, such as the gender pay gap, cross-
94% sector peer-to-peer learning processes and multi-stakeholder dialogs.
This is intended to help companies achieve their gender equality
goals and increase the proportion of women in leadership positions.
of our managers have taken
part in the Diversity Wins@Volkswagen
program.⁴
³ Change in methodology: from 2022, both nationalities are taken into account in the event of dual nationality.
4 Proportion of managers from companies with more than 1,000 employees who had participated in the program across the Group and around the world by December 31, 2022.
YTISREVID
Encouragement of Networks Employees at Volkswagen AG and Audi have an annual option: A
The Volkswagen Group supports the formation of employee net- conversion to paid leave may be made in place of payment of addi-
works to promote personal initiative and the willingness to take on tional remuneration in accordance with the collective agreement.
responsibility. This includes, for example, the LGBTQI+ & friends In Germany, the large number of people who take advantage of their
network “We Drive Proud.” The network not only represents the in- statutory parental leave entitlement proves how many employees
terests of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender*, intersex* and queer wish for reconcilability of work and family life. For parents, we grant
people but first and foremost helps to shape cultural change in the additional benefits that go beyond statutory entitlements. Thus,
Group. “We Drive Proud” sees itself as an open, Group-wide initia- Volkswagen AG employees that are entitled to company cars may
tive that maintains dialog with existing networks, e.g., those at continue using their vehicles privately for a limited period during
Audi, Porsche or SEAT. The cross-divisional Women Career Network parental leave. Volkswagen AG and subsidiaries with corresponding
advocates for equal development opportunities for women and rules grant their employees a benefit provision in the employer-
more diversity in leadership positions in the Volkswagen Group. financed occupational pension plan (basic plan) during parental leave.
There are now also fathers’ networks in existence at Audi (Dads@
Audi) and in Volkswagen AG (VäterConnection). We also consider childcare during working hours highly important
for enabling work/life balance for our employees. The Volkswagen
More Flexibility in Work/Life Balance Group therefore endeavors to offer childcare geared to specific
Volkswagen has recognized its employees’ need to be able to respond groups of people. Additionally, we provide daycare centers near a
flexibly and at short notice in various life situations. We are there- number of our sites.
fore constantly working on improving our employees’ work/life
balance through flexible working time models. For example, we Inclusion in the Workplace
want not only to take into account the specific needs of parents, We assume social responsibility by supporting workshops for people
single parents or carers for relatives but to facilitate more flexibility with disabilities. To this end, we awarded contracts worth around
for all employees. The rules and programs here vary from country €11.2 million in various Group companies during 2022. But we also
to country and are determined by the legal framework, cultural champion the inclusion of people with disabilities internally. In 2022,
circumstances and the results of collective negotiations. the proportion of employees with disabilities at Volkswagen AG
was 8.8%.
For example, Volkswagen AG and Volkswagen Financial Services
AG have the instrument “Meine AusZeit,” through which em- Our responsibility for keeping employees in valuable activities for
ployees can take a career break at short notice and flexibly with- their entire career if possible also extends to the needs of employees
out saving time credits beforehand. In the leave of three to six with a restricted working capacity. After all, individual forms of
months, remuneration continues to be paid, financed by ad- work organization can result in significantly higher performance
vance payment by the employer. This is repaid in the subsequent and job satisfaction levels for precisely these groups of employees.
period of work immediately after the leave. The Work2Work program provides a good example. Since 2001,
Volkswagen AG has opened up new career opportunities within the
In addition, we are working on meeting the need many employees business for employees with differing abilities. In Wolfsburg,
have for more flexibility in their working hours and place of work. It 620 employees are currently employed in Work2Work jobs in more
has become apparent that many employees also want to continue to than 50 different areas.
work remotely to a greater extent after the pandemic. Volkswagen AG,
Audi, Porsche, SEAT and Volkswagen Financial Services AG, among
others, have therefore concluded far-reaching company agreements
regarding working outside company premises (mobile working).
Our guarantee of reemployment also offers a high level of flexibility.
For the past 20 years or so, Volkswagen AG employees have been able
to take up to eight years’ leave of absence without having to give a
reason. Regardless of whether this leave is for career development
purposes or for parental leave, employees have a guaranteed
right to reemployment on comparable terms subject to the eco-
nomic situation.
YTISREVID
DIVERSITY KPIS
KPI Unit 2022 2021 Notes and comments
Diversity index Active workforce1
Proportion of women in management
Target for proportion of women in management in % 17.0 16.0
Actual proportion of women in management in % 17.2 16.3
Actual level of proportion of women sub-index | 142 135
weighting 0.50
Internationalization in top management²
Target for internationalization in % 22.3 21.4
in top management
Actual level of internationalization in % 23.4 20.3
in top management
Actual level of internationalization 138 119
in top management sub-index | weighting 0.50
Cumulative diversity index figure
Target cumulative diversity index figure value 136 129
Actual cumulative diversity index figure value 140 127
Proportion of women (as per legal situation in
Germany: Executive Positions Act)
Actual figure for women at first management level³ in % 14.2 13.5 Volkswagen AG, active workforce¹
Actual figure for women at second management level⁴ in % 19.7 18.3 Volkswagen AG, active workforce¹
Discrimination
Dismissals due to breaches in number 14 15 Basis: 110 companies, each with more
the area of discrimination than 500 employees (previous year:
111 companies, each with more than
500 employees)
1 Definition of active workforce: total workforce not including trainees or employees in the passive phase of semi-retirement. In addition, when compiling the data for the diversity index
and within the framework of the German Act on the Equal Participation of Women and Men in Leadership Positions (Gesetz zur gleichberechtigten Teilhabe von Frauen und Männern an
Führungspositionen), an adjustment is made for employees in the withdrawal phase of the Time Asset scheme (Time Asset scheme: time credits from deferred compensation).
2 Change in methodology: From 2022, both nationalities are taken into account in the event of dual nationality.
³ Definition of first level of management: senior management, top management and brand board of management.
4 Definition of second level of management: line managers.
YTISREVID
INTEGRITY
OUR UNDERSTANDING OF INTEGRITY gated decision-making powers. The I&C statement is thus anchored
in the proposed resolutions of the Group’s and the brands’ top bodies.
For us, integrity means doing the right thing in a professional con-
text on the basis of our own convictions. This includes steadfastness ACTING WITH INTEGRITY AS THE FOUNDATION OF SUCCESS
in adhering to these principles regardless of economic or social
pressures. Integrity is an attitude. It provides an inner compass for Acting with integrity and in compliance with the rules is of key im-
correct action. This becomes crucial particularly in gray areas where portance for the success and resilience of our Group. This is why we
there are no explicit (compliance) rules, these are contradictory or have made I&C a key element of our NEW AUTO Group strategy and
conflicting goals exist. chosen it as one of six focus topics of our sustainability program.
Information on potentially negative effects of the Volkswagen
In addition to personal integrity, organizational integrity matters Group in this area can be found in the “Compliance” section.
to us too. It is based on anchoring integrity in the Group’s processes
and decisions and offers people a fixed framework for interaction. Compliance
In a third dimension, we understand integrity as an intangible
corporate asset: It strengthens our stakeholders’ trust and makes us We are aware that violations of laws, rules and regulations have
more attractive for investors, customers and employees. consequences. We would not only lose our shareholders’, customers’
and employees’ trust, we would also have to expect legal conse-
HOLISTIC MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO INTEGRITY AND quences and face the threat of fines.
COMPLIANCE
This is another reason why we want to act as a role model in this
As the highest Group body, the Integrity and Compliance Group area and thus retain the trust of existing and future employees,
Board of Management Committee (K-VAC) deals with the design and customers, shareholders and partners. We have set out the ethical
guiding principles of the integrity and compliance management sys- basis of our actions in our Code of Conduct (CoC) and in the Group
tem. It is overseen by the Group Board of Management Integrity and Essentials.
Legal Affairs function. The committee includes the members of the
Group Board of Management responsible for human resources The aim is to gear our rules, processes and corporate culture to en-
and finance and other members of the boards of management abling every employee to act with integrity and in compliance
and top management of the brands. K-VAC analyzes the design of with the rules at all times. At the same time, we want to ensure that,
the respective compliance management systems for each risk area as a metric, I&C permanently has the same strategic and operational
and harmonizes the intervening processes. It reviews reports from priority as, for example, sales revenue, profit, product quality or
the brands and regions on integrity, compliance and the Together- employer attractiveness.
4Integrity (T4I) initiatives and strategically develops the program.
TOGETHER4INTEGRITY: UMBRELLA FOR INTEGRITY AND
In particular, the structures and processes changed in the context COMPLIANCE
of the Monitorship have proven to be an important foundation for
our Group. At the same time, they are a task for the future. In 2020, We bundle almost all our integrity and compliance measures in the
the boards of management of Volkswagen AG, AUDI AG, Volkswagen Group-wide Together4Integrity (T4I) program. It is designed to pro-
Group of America, Inc. and Volkswagen Group of America Chattanooga tect the Group from risks in the long term.
Operations LLC in particular committed to continuing on the course
adopted and to further promote integrity and compliance (I&C) in
the Group on a permanent basis. The independent audit by the U.S.
TOGETHER4INTEGRITY
Environmental Protection Agency shows that Volkswagen AG is
T4I bundles almost all the Volkswagen Group’s integrity
making progress in this respect. The audit was successfully com-
and compliance activities under a single umbrella in
pleted in the reporting year.
eleven key initiatives.
I&C should form the core of our business activities, including in
our transformation from a vehicle manufacturer to a provider of
sustainable mobility. We set binding standards for this in all areas. T4I works with uniform, robust process and implementation stan-
For example, every proposed resolution submitted to the Group dards: The program gathers together relevant content and processes
Board of Management must demonstrate that it is in line with integ- from 16 departments – including Integrity, Compliance, Risk Manage-
rity and compliance requirements and state which relevant risks ment, Production, Technical Development, Procurement and Sales –
the targeted resolution includes and how the risks can be reduced. reviews, consolidates and coordinates the content, puts together
This I&C statement is also binding for decisions of the boards of packages of measures from it (concept), distributes them in the Group
management of the individual Group brands and companies and (rollout), checks successful implementation (quality control) and
for bodies to which the board of management in question has dele- measures the effectiveness (success measurement).
YTIRGETNI
The T4I rollout now encompasses 784 controlled companies in 244
around 80 countries and has largely been completed. Implementa-
tion will be completed by 2025 at the latest. The Integrity and Legal
perception workshops
Affairs function of the Board of Management has responsibility for
it. The measures are each implemented locally in the companies. have been taking place since 2018.
Sustainable Success through Long-Term Monitoring We have made further progress on this: More than 87% of partici-
Success measurement and quality control play a key role in the T4I pants in perception workshops surveyed stated that the anchoring
program. The Effectiveness Assurance department performs risk- of I&C in the companies is progressing successfully. This means a
based audits of whether the T4I measures have been introduced in further increase compared with the previous year (around 83%) and
the companies and how they are working. The central planning and re- a significant increase compared with the first measurement point
porting system of the T4I program provides permanent transparency in 2019 (around 71%).
on the implementation status of the core initiatives. This serves
both internal Board of Management reporting and effective project Cultural Change and Other Changes
management. T4I not only establishes a worldwide integrity and compliance
management system for all Group and brand companies but also
Launch events and perception workshops supplement the tools at advances one of the most extensive change and cultural programs
the level of the local companies. The perception workshops measure in the history of the Volkswagen Group.
the effectiveness of the T4I measures and involve representatively
selected employees and managers as players in the change process. We want to increase awareness of each individual’s valuable contri-
bution. T4I is intended to motivate employees to act with integrity
Since the start of the program in 2018, 739 events have been initiated in all situations. Communication plays a key role here. For exam-
at more than 680 companies, of which around 244 were recurring ple our senior executives regularly spell out the central impor-
perception workshops. More than 42,000 managers and employees tance of I&C for the Group and the workforce in their “Tones from
have already taken part. Repeating the events makes it possible to the top.”
measure the progress of the various companies.
T4I thus means more for us than the sum of the parts.
YTIRGETNI
11 CORE INITIATIVES
1. HR compliance policies and
procedures
2. Code of Conduct (CoC)
3. Integrity program
4. Risk management and internal
control processes
5. Internal compliance risk assessment
(ICRA) and compliance organization
6. Whistleblower system
7. M&A and NCS compliance
8. Business partner due diligence
9. Product compliance
10. Environmental compliance
11. Anti-corruption
T4I Initiatives and Packages of measures least annually, on the implementation status of the measures. In
The T4I packages of measures are grouped in 11 core initiatives: the reporting period, the ICRA process was brought into line with
the requirements of the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act
1) HR compliance policies and procedures: I&C is integrated into (Lieferkettensorgfaltspflichtengesetz). These changes will be
standard HR processes such as recruitment, training, promotion applied in 2023.
and remuneration. It is also a compulsory topic in annual employ-
ee appraisals and is part of training measures for employees. 6) W histleblower system: The whistleblower system is the central
Volkswagen AG and other defined companies keep anonymized point of contact for reporting cases of rule-breaking by Group
statistics on misconduct and the resulting sanctions. These are employees, direct and indirect suppliers, and selected other business
regularly communicated to employees. partners. These include, for example, economic crimes, corrup-
tion, tax offenses and breaches of the CoC. A detailed description
2) C ode of Conduct: The Code of Conduct (CoC) lays the foundations of the whistleblower system follows on p. 101.
for compliance in the Volkswagen Group. It acts as the key element
for reinforcing awareness of responsible conduct and decision- 7) M &A and NCS compliance: In the case of planned mergers and
making within the workforce, providing help, and finding the acquisitions (M&A) requiring the involvement of the Compliance
right contact persons in cases of doubt. The CoC is a component team, the companies and transactions are audited for human rights
of the Group’s employment contracts and is mandatory for all the risks and for integrity and reputation risks, including corruption,
Group’s employees. The CoC is also part of employee appraisals money laundering and fraud – for example, in a due diligence.
as a measurement criterion for “setting an example of integrity This also applies to joint ventures, industrialization projects such
and compliance.” as the construction of new foreign production sites with external
partners, and collaborations with third parties. The business units
3) I ntegrity program: The integrity program aims to anchor integri- are then given recommendations for risk-reducing measures.
ty as a strategic success lever and a control variable for deci- Furthermore, Group Compliance deals with compliance manage-
sion-making processes. The objective is to communicate the im- ment at noncontrolled shareholdings (NCSs), i.e., companies that
portance of integrity to employees, to support them in acting are not controlled by a Volkswagen Group company as a majority
with integrity in their day-to-day work and to make integrity visi- shareholder. This also includes the Chinese joint ventures.
ble and tangible. The most important tools included dialog-orient-
ed communication measures, event formats and so-called integ- 8) B usiness partner due diligence: The business partner due dili-
rity ambassadors, who carry the topic into the structures of the gence process reviews the integrity of business partners and sup-
Group and promote dialog. pliers on the procurement side and the sales side, particularly for
corruption risks. This also encompasses constantly monitoring the
One focus of the program is raising awareness of making decisions business partners for whether they are complying with laws and
with integrity. Specific training modules for all levels of manage- ethical standards.
ment, including foremen, have been developed for this. These are in-
tegrated into all Volkswagen AG’s obligatory management training 9) P roduct compliance: The product compliance management sys-
programs. Brands and companies that do not use these programs tem (PCMS) supports our products in meeting the statutory and
are required to include corresponding modules in their own regulatory requirements of the exporting and importing coun-
development programs. tries, internal and external standards, contractually agreed cus-
tomer requirements and externally communicated commit-
4) R isk management and internal control processes: Binding struc- ments over their entire service life. The PCMS defines roles and
tures and processes are intended to create transparency and help responsibilities for design, implementation and monitoring. We
manage risk from our business activities. These include the quar- train employees and managers on product compliance and have
terly risk process, which is focused on acute risks, the standard central points of contact to which our employees can address
internal control system (ICS), which is intended to protect key their questions.
processes, business continuity management, which identifies
business-critical processes and protects them with contingency 10) E nvironmental compliance: The Group’s environmental policy
plans, and root cause analysis. and the environmental compliance management system stipu-
late that environmentally relevant aspects and requirements
5) I nternal compliance risk assessment (ICRA) and compliance orga- must be taken into account in all strategy, planning and deci-
nization: The ICRA determines the compliance risks in the Group. sion-making processes of the brands and Group companies. This
Based on their risk profile, measures are defined for each company includes a KPI system that measures progress on environmen-
and their implementation is tracked. The ICRA also defines im- tal targets.
plementation standards for the CoC, the whistleblower system,
compliance training and communication. The Group Chief Com- Environmental Compliance Management
pliance Officer reports to the K-VAC on an ad hoc basis, but at
YTIRGETNI
11) A nti-corruption: The Volkswagen Group has a zero-tolerance COMPLIANCE ORGANIZATION: ESTABLISHED ACROSS THE
policy toward active or passive corruption. This is anchored in GROUP
both the Code of Conduct for Employees and in the Code of
Conduct for Business Partners. Further Group policies set out Group Compliance supports the Group and brand companies in
how to deal with conflicts of interest, donations and sponsor- carrying out their business activities in compliance with the rules
ship or benefits in the form of gifts or invitations. In a ddition, and complying with the relevant laws and internal regulations.
there are operating guidelines addressing approval procedures, Focuses of the work include anti-corruption and preventing embez-
record-keeping and appropriate behavior. Reported breaches zlement, fraud and money laundering. In addition, the Compliance
of the code are pursued and investigated by managers and HR, department and Group Legal must be included in M&A transac-
and in serious cases also by our investigation offices. If personal tions, which includes joint ventures, industrialization projects and
misconduct is found, the HR department in question takes the cooperation projects with external partners. Group Legal also
appropriate disciplinary action. conducts risk assessments on antitrust and anti-competitive risks
in relevant Group departments and companies.
Further Increasing the Measurability of Integrity
In addition to the perception workshops, the annual employee The Group Chief Compliance Officer heads the global compliance
survey – the Opinion Survey – in particular provides information organization. They report directly to the member of the Board of
about the progress of our culture of integrity. The Group-wide Management for Integrity and Legal Affairs and to the Audit Com-
survey includes a question on whether it is possible for each indi- mittee of the Supervisory Board of Volkswagen AG. The compliance
vidual to act with integrity. If employees have any doubts about organization is structured by division, which is intended to
this, the relevant manager needs to identify and clear possible ob- strengthen communication and enable harmonized processes
stacles together with their team. across all relevant Group companies.
The brands that manufacture passenger cars use the “compliance, The divisional compliance officers are generally responsible for
culture of dealing openly with mistakes and acting with integrity” several brands and implement compliance measures in their area of
strategic indicator as an additional metric. This is also based on the responsibility. Porsche AG and Traton SE are exceptions from this.
Opinion Survey and asks about compliance with regulations and They have their own, independent compliance structure. One
processes, dealing with risks and errors, and whether it is possible to regional compliance officer is responsible for the activities of the
act with integrity. The key performance indicator has continuously Volkswagen-controlled entities in China. The controlled companies
improved through to 2022 from an already good starting point: since in Australia, Korea, Japan, Malaysia and Taiwan are overseen by a
compilation of this indicator began, employee agreement has always single regional compliance officer for the Asia region. In the reporting
been in the highest category of the underlying five-point scale. year, Group Compliance also created the new Group Technology
divisional compliance office (DCO). It oversees the Board of Manage-
COMPLIANCE: CLEAR RULES IN THE VOLKSWAGEN GROUP ment’s Group Technology business area and the Volkswagen Group
Components brand together with affiliated companies. The DCO deals
Sustainable economic success can only be achieved if each individ- with compliance matters relating to the traditional component
ual complies with laws, internal regulations and voluntary com- business and also with new fields of business such as the topics of
mitments. Compliant behavior should be a matter of course for all batteries, charging and energy, or the sale of our individual compo-
Group employees. The compliance organization provides support nents, modular toolkits and platforms to third parties.
through programs, guidelines for action, processes and practical
advice in the Group-wide, risk-oriented compliance management
system (CMS).
YTIRGETNI
Internal and external auditors regularly scrutinize the compliance CLEAR STANDARDS AND COMPREHENSIVE OPTIONS
management system. Particularly in the context of the monitoring
and improvement process, auditors regularly audit the effectiveness Clear Standards for Business Partners
of compliance measures. In addition, continuous improvement Group Compliance supports the entities with operational responsi-
processes support the development of the CMS. Hot-topic reporting bility in conducting business partner due diligence (BPDD). BPDD
is an important aspect here. This process is used to quickly pass on includes regular screenings, risk assessments, sanctions list
information on compliance-relevant systemic incidents and for checks and the identification of warning signs. We also check whether
immediate escalation in the whole organization. business partners (suppliers and sales partners) have a compliance
management system or have implemented any compliance measures.
Risks at a Glance
From a compliance perspective, our business activities entail risks, The aim is to identify risks for breaches of the law and disregard of
including in relation to corruption, money laundering and violations ethical standards at an early stage, avoid high-risk business partners
of human and environmental rights. The ramp-up of our battery and define measures to minimize risk and implement these with
business means we need to purchase significantly more raw mate- business partners. In individual cases, selected business partners
rials whose mining must be strictly monitored for human rights are contacted directly to resolve potential violations. If this is not
compliance. There is generally a high risk of corruption in the possible, the business relationship will be terminated or not com-
countries concerned. Breaches of environmental protection require- menced in the first place. The business partner in question may be
ments may also harm the environment and lead to reputational blacklisted from doing business with the Volkswagen Group and
damage and financial losses. We use our responsible supply chain blocked from all its brands and companies.
system to proactively prevent or minimize social or environmental
risks and corruption along the supply chain. The system builds The BPDD process is conducted together with the commissioning
on a systemic risk analysis. More information can be found in the department – for example, Procurement or Sales. More than 4,300
Supply Chain and Human Rights chapter. BPDD reviews were carried out in 2022. As of December 31, 2022,
we had identified around 400 cases that led to terminating or not
Supply Chain and Human Rights commencing business relationships.
YTIRGETNI
COMPLIANCE ALONG OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
CLEAR STANDARDS FOR TRAINING AND OPTIONS FOR DATA PROTECTION
BUSINESS PARTNERS AND EMPLOYEES
– D ata protection management
SUPPLIERS
– M andatory, regular CoC training for system (DPMS) including reporting
– Code of Conduct all employees process
– B usiness partner – Target-group-specific training – D ata protection management
due diligence (e.g., anti-corruption, antitrust, organization
compliance)
– C ompliance information point
WHISTLEBLOWER SYSTEM: EXTERNAL REPORTING CHANNEL
Ombudsmen (external attorneys)
Business partners, employees,
customers and other third parties WHISTLEBLOWERS
can report information on potential Internal or external
breaches of the rules at any time
and in many languages. REPORTING CHANNELS IN THE VW GROUP
Online reporting channel, 24/7 hotline, email,
mail, in person
Extensive Compliance and Anti-Corruption Training In addition, Group Compliance develops and implements target-
Group Compliance has implemented structures and measures to group- specific training for employees in areas or companies with
establish Group-wide, uniform standards for compliance training high risk exposure. Anti-corruption training with an in-depth module
through the compliance management system – for example, on on dealing with officeholders and mandate holders is mandatory
the Code of Conduct, on anti-corruption, the prohibition of money for employees. Companies with high risk exposure must implement
laundering and the whistleblower system. Implementation packages this training on a mandatory basis. Managers from senior manage-
for the rollout of mandatory training describe the key aspects of ment upwards also have their awareness raised regarding the parts
the training in terms of content and process. These will enable brands of the CoC containing the prohibition on corruption as part of the
and companies to train employees in a risk-based, target-group- annual c ertification on the CoC.
specific manner with defined core content and hold training courses
of equal quality. Members of senior management and above are The number of permanent staff who are required to take mandatory
certified on the CoC each year. They confirm that they comply with training and have a valid qualification is systematically recorded
the requirements of knowing their own role of setting an example for the mandatory web-based training on the topic of anti-corrup-
of compliance, raising the awareness of employees in their area tion – for example, in Volkswagen AG. In Volkswagen AG, 45,808
of responsibility accordingly and giving them access to the CoC. employees in the relevant target group had the relevant valid quali-
Knowledge of the obligation to report serious breaches of regulations fication as of December 31, 2022. This equates to 93.0% of the
and the disclosure of any conflicts of interest are also part of the permanent workforce (employees and management) to be trained,
certification. Business partners and contractors from sales and pro- including full-time and part-time employees. The practical “Anti-
curement also receive training based on risk. The basis for this is corruption” guidelines can also be accessed at any time.
the CoC for Business Partners. This has been a component of agree-
ments with suppliers and service providers since 2020. Group Legal introduced new web-based antitrust training in 2022.
Depending on risk exposure, its completion may be mandatory.
Across the Group, all employees are required to complete regular Group Legal also continuously provides antitrust training on a risk-
CoC training in accordance with uniform standards. It ensures basic based basis. The Group Board of Management is also trained on its
awareness of integrity and compliance. The content of the training – content. In addition, employees who are employed in key positions
including business and human rights, environmental compliance, with high risk exposure receive additional compliance training.
product conformity, product safety, and occupational safety – is up- This concerns, for example, managing directors or financial officers.
dated every two years. The next update will follow in 2023. The brands This training is held across the Group by the respective companies’
and companies regularly provide changing supplementary focus compliance and personnel managers.
content from the Code of Conduct.
In addition to the training, Volkswagen AG’s compliance depart-
Here, employees have to complete the training and final test in the ments offer target-group-specific training formats and communi-
form of a web-based training (WBT) and repeat it every two years. cation formats, including management discussions and training
Passing is documented in their training history. Interns, student courses for disseminators of information. Moreover, compliance
workers and doctoral candidates are excluded from the training content is a component of all career development paths, from the
for technical and process reasons. Production employees receive trainee induction program through programs for leadership and
mandatory CoC training every four years. management development to the senior management program.
The measures are supplemented by information and communication
Volkswagen AG systemically records the number of permanent activities such as awareness campaigns, film and dialog formats,
staff (employees and management, including full-time and part- newsletters and interactive games.
time staff) who are required to take mandatory training and have a
valid qualification from the web-based training on the CoC. In
Volkswagen AG, 48,311 employees in the relevant target group had
a valid CoC qualification as of the end of December 2022. This is
equivalent to 98.4% of the permanent staff at Volkswagen AG who
must be trained using the web-based training on the CoC.
YTIRGETNI
Communication and Advice: Options for Employees line; and external attorneys, who act as ombudsmen. The processing
The compliance information point has established itself as a central of the reports and any follow-up questions can also be confidential
advisory office. It can be contacted in person, in the Volkswagen 360° and anonymous, if this is requested. Special IT infrastructure pre-
app or by email. The team is responsible for specific compliance ques- vents the source of the information from being identified.
tions – for example, on sponsorships, memberships and collabora-
tions and on questions relating to HR and labor law – interprets in- Strict confidentiality and secrecy apply throughout the investiga-
ternal company guidelines and policies, and advises on process tion process. An investigation is only initiated after a thorough
standards. If no direct recommendation is possible, the query will be review and in the event of concrete indications of rule-breaking.
passed on to a competent body. Dialog events in the departments There is a presumption of innocence. Those involved are heard as
supplement the services offered. Tasks and example cases from the soon as possible, and their names are cleared if they have been
practice of the advisory work are regularly included in compliance wrongly accused. Sanctions are applied where misconduct is proven.
communication. The aim is to provide employees with concrete This can comprise a warning, a reprimand or termination.
recommendations for future, similar questions and improve the Following serious breaches of rules, structured root cause analyses
internal control system. are conducted in order to prevent similar incidents in the future.
In the reporting year, the information point handled 1,517 inquiries The Central Investigation Office in Wolfsburg coordinates the Group-
(previous year: 1,335, in each case Volkswagen AG). Around 18% re- wide whistleblower system. The employees there process whistle-
late to the acceptance or giving of gifts and invitations. Where gifts blower information concerning Volkswagen AG and those of its
have been received that, for example, exceed value limits, and these subsidiaries that do not have their own investigation office and also
cannot be given back – for instance, for cultural reasons – it is possi- process reports with relevance for the Volkswagen Group.
ble to hand these in to Compliance. The gifts collected in the past
few years were sold at auction in the reporting year. The proceeds of Group Internal Audit, Group Security and Group Legal assist with
around €10,200 Euro were donated to a non-profit climate and operational case investigation. In individual cases, the investigation
environmental protection association. office also commissions investigations by independent and external
third parties, such as law firms or auditors. This may occur espe-
Data protection cially when the information concerns members of the Board of
To meet the requirements of the EU-wide General Data Protection Management or cases are exceptionally complex – particularly with
Regulation (GDPR), Volkswagen AG has created a data protection imminent legal consequences for Volkswagen AG (e.g., in the event of
management system (DPMS) and a data protection management particularly serious corruption or possible breaches of antitrust
organization. The DPMS ensures that the data protection processes set and anti-competitive law).
up are regularly analyzed, are up to date and are further developed.
One component of the DPMS is the process for reporting data protec- AUDI AG, Porsche AG and TRATON SE each have separate investi-
tion violations (reporting process). It is connected with Volkswagen AG’s gation offices for themselves and their subsidiaries. There is also a
whistleblower system and IT Security. In fiscal year 2022, there regional investigation office at Volkswagen (China) Investment
were no reportable data protection breaches pursuant to Art. 33 EU Company Ltd. It processes whistleblower information concerning
GDPR in the processing of personal customer data. In addition, Volkswagen AG’s Chinese subsidiaries. Cooperation between the in-
reportable data protection breaches outside of the processing of vestigation offices and uniform processing of whistleblower infor-
personal customer data were also reported to the competent super- mation are centrally monitored and coordinated in Wolfsburg.
visory authority in due time. In accordance with Group policy,
Group companies are responsible for their own compliance with the An IT system, internal controls and multiple-party verification sup-
applicable data protection requirements. port employees with the processing of suspicious activity reports.
Figures on the whistleblower system are reported to the Board of
Risk Prevention through the Whistleblower System Management and the Supervisory Board at regular intervals. The
The whistleblower system is intended to avert damage to the Group, workforce is also regularly informed about the whistleblower system.
the workforce and other stakeholders with binding principles and In addition, numerous compliance training courses address the
regulated procedures. Employees, business partners and their em- task of the whistleblower system and how it works. Employees who
ployees, customers and other third parties can report information on might frequently come into contact with serious breaches of rules
potential breaches of the rules at any time – including anonymously if due to their work receive in-depth training. This includes, for
they so choose. The whistleblower system offers six different report- example, employees in the fields of audit, security, human resources,
ing channels for this. These include an online channel, which accepts legal or compliance.
reports in many languages; an international 24-hour telephone hot-
YTIRGETNI
The Volkswagen Group assures all whistleblowers and people who In the reporting year, the investigation offices investigated individual
support the whistleblowers or the investigations of protection from cases of suspected serious infringements of rules to prevent corrup-
any reprisals they could experience due to their reports and their tion. In six cases this resulted in significant sanctions such as warn-
efforts to investigate breaches. This is anchored in Group policy 3, ings or dismissals. In five cases this was due to violations of rules
which applies worldwide, and is described in the Code of Conduct. to avoid conflicts of interest and in one case to a violation of pro-
The terms stated in the Group policy show that the Volkswagen curement guidelines. Five investigations into suspicions of serious
Group complies with the provisions of international whistleblower infringements of antitrust or competition law were closed. In none
protection laws – for example, the EU directive on whistleblower of these cases was a serious violation of antitrust or competition
protection, its implementation acts and the German Supply Chain law established.
Due Diligence Act (LkSG). To prepare for the entry into force of these
new l egal regulations, the Central Investigation Office has carried An independent external auditor regularly audits the effectiveness
out an information campaign to raise awareness in the relevant and functionality of the whistleblower system. The audit is currently
Group companies. Breaches of the ban on discrimination are treated conducted annually. The Audit Committee of the Supervisory
as serious breaches of the rules. Board, the Group Board of Management and the boards of manage-
ment of companies concerned are informed of the result and possi-
Within the digital ComplianceXChange workshop format, the ble suggestions for improvement. The past audit showed that the
whistleblower system team communicates with experts from Group whistleblower system’s processes are suitable for efficiently
other DAX companies twice a year to share experiences and and effectively processing whistleblower information. In the
discuss current issues. reporting year, the investigation offices of AUDI AG, Traton SE,
Porsche AG and Volkswagen AG were audited.
Suspected Cases and Compliance Breaches in the Reporting Year
In 2022, the investigation offices registered 3,073 whistleblower
reports (2021: 3,219). Around 24% of these were anonymous but
with the option to contact the whistleblower, and around 9% were
anonymous without the option to make contact. In 754 cases, the
Central Investigation Office accepted an initial suspicion of breaches
of the Code of Conduct, in several cases also of laws and/or specific
internal regulations at the same time, with the result that an inter-
nal investigation was initiated. Of these, 187 cases involved poten-
tially serious breaches of rules.
YTIRGETNI
INTEGRITY KPIS
KPI Unit 2022 2021 Notes and comments
T4I
T4I rollout in controlled companies number 784 707 Since the start of the program
Approval rate from T4I perception workshops in % 87.8 82.7 Definition, see p. 96
Information point
Inquiries processed to the number 1,517 1,335 Volkswagen AG
compliance information point
Change in inquiries processed to the in % 14 –10
compliance information point
Code of Conduct
Employees of Volkswagen AG who have a valid number 48,311 48,017 Web-based training;
qualification on the Code of Conduct scope definition, see p. 100
Proportion of the workforce of in % 98.4 98.2 Web-based training;
Volkswagen AG to be qualified scope definition, see p. 100
Anti-corruption
Employees of Volkswagen AG who have a valid number 45,808 36,565 Web-based training;
qualification on the topic of anti-corruption scope definition, see p. 100
Proportion of the workforce of Volkswagen AG in % 93.0 74.8 Web-based training;
to be qualified on the topic of anti-corruption scope definition, see p. 100
Pieces of whistleblower information
Pieces of whistleblower information number 3,073 3,219 In all investigation offices
of which anonymous and without any in % 9 10
possibility of contact
BPDD reviews number > 4,300 > 8,600 Business partners in sales and
procurement (suppliers)
Culture of rules
Compliance, a culture of dealing openly with 86.6 86.3
mistakes and acting with integrity
YTIRGETNI
SUPPLY CHAIN AND
HUM AN RIGHTS
PROTECTING HUMAN RIGHTS EFFECTIVELY The above international human rights frameworks are also defined as
focal points. These “salient business & human rights issues” refer to:
The Volkswagen Group pursues the vision of enabling sustainable
mobility for generations to come. This includes living up to our legal, Labor rights
social and environmental responsibility not just in our own Group • Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining
but also in our supply chains. In 2022, the Volkswagen Group once • No forced labor
again anchored the focus topic of “Supply chains and human rights” • No child labor
in the key Group initiatives. • Good working conditions
RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR GROUP Safety
• No involvement in any unlawful activities
As of August 1, 2022, the Group Board of Management created the • Guarantee of people’s safety
position of an officer for human rights-related issues within the
Group. This officer reports to the member of the Group’s Board of Tolerance
Management responsible for Integrity and Legal Affairs and will in- • Tolerance towards different ideological and religious opinions
dependently monitor whether human rights due diligence require- and respectful expression of them
ments are being complied within the Group. This includes the su- • No discrimination
pervision of risk management regarding risks relating to human • Diversity and protection of disadvantaged, especially indigenous
rights and the environment, prevention measures, grievance man- groups
agement and remedial action in the departments and in Compli-
ance. The officer also prepares the Group Board of Management’s In the last few years, a trend of also regulating the issue of business
declaration of principles prescribed by the German Supply Chain and human rights in national laws has been emerging in leading eco-
Due Diligence Act (Lieferkettensorgfaltspflichtengesetz – LkSG). In nomic powers. The Volkswagen Group supports a binding legal
addition, the officer for human rights-related issues has responsibility framework that requires companies and their suppliers to respect
for the external and internal reporting obligations, the dialog with human rights. We also welcome the EU’s legislative initiatives such as
stakeholders, and stakeholder management. The officer for human the Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive (CSDDD), par-
rights-related issues is the first point of contact for all human ticularly the associated level playing field for equal and fair competi-
rights-related concerns on the part of authorities, policymakers tion conditions at international level.
and society.
Code of Conduct and Group Policies as a Framework for Action
Acting on the Basis of Firm Values and Principles The Volkswagen Group has enshrined the topic of business and
The work in the Group’s factories and sales companies around the human rights and its significance for the supply chain in processes
world is based on firm principles, such as respect for minorities and and policies that apply to all the Group’s employees worldwide.
compliance with labor standards. We continuously assess social Expectations of employees and the Group-wide understanding of the
and labor standards and the human rights risk in the countries observance of universal human rights are set out in our Code of
where we operate. The basis for this is the publicly available reports Conduct: We respect, protect and promote the regulations on pro-
of the United Nations and specific analyses and indices. The tecting human rights worldwide as fundamental and universally
Volkswagen Group respects international guidelines and conven- valid requirements. We reject all use of child, forced or compulsory
tions, including in particular: labor and any form of modern slavery or human trafficking.
• The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which is codified Our Group policies embed the topic of business and human rights
in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and in both in our governance functions and in the implementation of
the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural site projects. Furthermore, the topic is also procedurally anchored in
Rights site decisions and M&A projects.
• The Core Labor Standards of the International Labour Organization
(ILO) The Group and employee representatives have also signed the
• The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights “Declaration by the Volkswagen Group on social rights, industrial re-
• The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises lations and business & human rights” – the Social Charter.
• The principles of the UN Global Compact
People in the Transformation
www.volkswagenag.com > Sustainability > Strategy,
Policy & Engagement > Policy > Declaration on Social Rights
STHGIR
NAMUH
DNA
NIAHC
YLPPUS
This declaration provides a binding basis for social and industrial Compliance Management System for Human Rights
relations within the Volkswagen Group. It also serves as a bench- We have sustainably integrated the topic of business and human
mark for shaping relationships with suppliers and other business rights into the Group’s established compliance management system.
partners. The specific expectations regarding suppliers arising from All active controlled Group companies with their own employees
this declaration are defined in the Code of Conduct for Business take part in the standardized internal compliance risk management
Partners. This Code of Conduct must be recognized by all suppliers process. In the case of noncontrolled companies (with Chinese joint
prior to the commencement of the business relationship. ventures), an individual analysis is made with regard to the overall
compliance management system (including human rights, where
Permanent employees of the Volkswagen Group’s controlled com- applicable) in cooperation with our respective companies via our in-
panies have their awareness raised as part of the mandatory Code ternal contacts. We rely on the cooperation of these companies here.
of Conduct training. Further information on the implementation
rates for the Code of Conduct training can be found in the Integrity Group Compliance made risk assessments for the field of human
chapter. rights for 805 companies around the world. This means that 100%
of our controlled companies within the scope of compliance in a
Integrity total of 82 countries were audited. This risk analysis incorporates
the results and risk assessments of the previous year. In the report-
Engaged Dialog with Our Stakeholders ing year itself, 51 risk assessments were made of companies that
We provide our workforce with information on the supply chain were added to the scope of compliance from a total of 18 countries.
and human rights via a number of channels. This includes articles
in internal media and newsletters and internal dialog and Q&A This analysis assessed our business units’ human-rights risk situation
events. This is because it is important to us that our employees and, as a result, we can allocate these to the low, medium and high
obtain information directly at first hand. We communicate our posi- categories. These companies were then given risk-specific measures.
tioning to the public and external stakeholders through interviews The measures must be implemented for all companies in the scope
with top managers, in media reports and through our digital on the basis of their risk profile. The status of implementation of
channels. the respective measures is continuously monitored by the Group.
In our view, continuous dialog between those involved about prin- In the reporting year, adjustments to the compliance risk manage-
ciples and implementation issues is needed in differentiating be- ment process were prepared in order to fully comply with the
tween the state’s duty to protect human rights and corporate human requirements of the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (LkSG),
rights responsibility. For businesses, it is often challenging to ob- which entered into force on J anuary 1, 2023. These adjustments
tain concrete and objective information enabling a comprehensive will be applied in 2023.
assessment of human rights situations. In order to achieve further
progress, we also seek cooperation with international organizations. RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
For example, we are continuously in written and personal dialog
with NGOs and human rights institutions. Due to the complexity of its products, the Volkswagen Group’s
supply chain is highly complex, globally distributed and subject to
Stakeholder Management constant change. It comprises more than 59,000 supplier sites1
around the world in more than 90 countries. Our activities may
Institutional investors and investment banks also seek dialog with have negative effects on our environment and on people in our
us on the topic of business and human rights. One of the places we supply chain. At the same time, our size and position in the market
publish our standpoint, including on controversial aspects, is the also mean there are opportunities to achieve environmental and
Volkswagen Group’s investor relations website. social improvements in our suppliers’ countries.
www.volkswagenag.com > Investor Relations >
Corporate Governance > ESG Controversies
Volkswagen completely rejects all forms of forced labor in the
Group’s businesses all over the world. We have no indications that
forced labor is being used in the supply chain or in any of our
production sites.
www.volkswagenag.com > Volkswagen Group
Statement on MSCI ESG Controversies Report
1 Change in methodology: All supplier-based KPIs reported in this chapter only take account of direct suppliers with revenue in 2022.
STHGIR
NAMUH
DNA
NIAHC
YLPPUS
Our aim is to design supply chains responsibly. The Group Procure- Redefined Management Approach
ment Sustainability department conducts the operational manage- In the reporting year, we also adjusted our management approach
ment of sustainability topics in our supply chains. In order to in procurement to meet the requirements of the new German
identify current developments and long-term challenges in the in- Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (LkSG), which entered into force on
dividual countries, we also encourage dialog between our brands January 1, 2023. The previous approach of “prevent, detect, react”
and regions through the Sustainability Procurement Network, in was replaced by the responsible supply chain system (ReSC system).
which more than 70 experts from five continents work together.
The new approach has the aim of avoiding and minimizing human-
Sustainability As Part of the Procurement Strategy rights, social or environmental risks along the Volkswagen Group’s
With our new procurement strategy, which gradually replaced supply chain based on a systemic risk analysis. It should also help
“Strategy 2025+ ” in the reporting year, we have launched a compre- to mitigate breaches and continuously improve suppliers’ sus-
hensive interdisciplinary strategy program. The program has five tainability performance. The ReSC system includes the following
pillars: Alongside the short-term cost target, we aim to improve our elements, which build on each other:
supply situation, increase quality and boost innovative power and
sustainability. • Risk Analysis: A regular risk analysis serves to identify risks in the
Volkswagen Group’s supply chain in advance. The analysis is made
The sustainability pillar of the program focuses on the topics of on the basis of the suppliers’ business models and takes account
“circular economy & climate neutrality,” “fairness & equality” and of internal and external data on human-rights and environmen-
“global management.” The first focus topic covers initiatives and tal risks. Based on the assessment of the risks, each supplier is
projects relating to the topics of decarbonization, the circular econ- allocated a low, medium or high sustainability risk. For suppliers
omy, resource efficiency, and biodiversity. In the “fairness & equali- with a low sustainability risk, a country risk score is additionally
ty” topic, we address, among other things, human rights due dili- used. If the supplier has an increased country risk, it is upgraded
gence, responsible procurement of raw materials, and diversity and to the medium risk category. The risk analysis is updated once a
inclusion in our supply chains. In the “global management” focus year and/or as required by Group Procurement Sustainability in
topic, the focus is on transparency, risk monitoring, performance consultation with relevant parent companies of the Volkswagen
and impact, process integration, management, and collaboration Group.
and reporting.
STHGIR
NAMUH
DNA
NIAHC
YLPPUS
Probability and severity of
human-rights and environmental risks
hgih
muidem
wol
RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN SYSTEM (RESC SYSTEM)
RISK ANALYSIS MEASURES
INDUSTRY-BASED SUPPLIER-BASED
STANDARD MEASURES DEEP DIVE
RISK ASSESSMENT ALLOCATION TO RISK
Code of Grievance Media Sustain- Supplier
Conduct mechanism Screening ability Trainings
Rating
Human Rights Focus System
+ n tier
high-risk
suppliers Analysis Deep Dive Measures
medium/
high-risk
suppliers
all suppliers
Raw Material Due Diligence System
Assess- Mitigation Impact
ment evaluation
+ n tier
low medium high
ytireveS
high
medium
low
Country Risk Filter
Probability
• Standard measures: These proactive and reactive measures in- Supply Chain Grievance Mechanism
clude the Code of Conduct for Business Partners, the supply chain The supply chain grievance mechanism is used to process informa-
grievance mechanism, media screenings, the sustainability tion on human-rights and environmental risks and on breaches of
rating and training suppliers and employees. human-rights or environmental obligations by the Volkswagen
Group’s direct or indirect suppliers.
• Deep Dive measures: These encompass the human rights focus
system in the supply chain, the raw material due diligence man- The mechanism is accessible via the channels of the Volkswagen
agement system and collaboration with external partners to Group’s whistleblower system and is open to all potentially affected
develop the concept of sustainability in the supply chain. stakeholders – e.g., employees of suppliers, civil society players or
representatives of communities in the immediate vicinity of our
Implementation of the management approach is mandatory and is production locations. The processing of cases is uniformly de-
enshrined in corresponding policies for the Group’s brands and scribed in a binding manual and is managed by the Group. Cases are
controlled companies. The Volkswagen Group identifies the sus- processed together with the brands and regions of the Volkswagen
tainability risks that may arise as a result of its business relation- Group. Breaches identified are categorized by their severity to
ships. The processes for analyzing risk represent the first step of ensure adequate processing. Depending on the categorization of the
our ReSC system. Based on the risks identified, a package of mea- breach, appropriate measures are then introduced. If there are
sures for preventing and mitigating risks is assigned to the suppli- serious breaches, it is possible to temporarily block suppliers from
ers in the respective business models and countries. eligibility for the award of new contracts or to terminate the busi-
ness relationship with them.
STANDARD MEASURES: FOUNDATION OF OUR RESC SYSTEM
Media Screening
Code of Conduct for Business Partners Group Procurement Sustainability carries out continuous and risk-
The core element of our supplier management is the “Volkswagen based media screening of relevant suppliers2 using a software tool.
requirements for sustainability in relations with business part- If the tool identifies indications of possible breaches of our Code of
ners” – the Code of Conduct for Business Partners. It sets out our Conduct for Business Partners, these are reviewed and, if necessary,
expectations of our business partners’ conduct with respect to key processed in the supply chain grievance mechanism.
human-rights, environmental, social and compliance standards.
The requirements are based, among other things, on the OECD Sustainability Rating
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the UN Guiding Principles A sustainability rating (S rating) was introduced in 2019 as a key
on Business and Human Rights and the relevant International Labour measure for all relevant companies and suppliers with a high sus-
Organization (ILO) conventions. The Code of Conduct is, however, tainability risk. The S rating is used to audit the sustainability per-
not just based on international standards, but also objectives, rules formance of relevant suppliers³ and reveal opportunities for con-
and policies of the Volkswagen Group. tinuous improvement. It assesses the environmental performance
of suppliers and their social sustainability and integrity. The S rating
Before submitting a quote, our suppliers must confirm that they is directly relevant to awarding contracts: If a supplier does not
accept our sustainability requirements in the Code of Conduct for meet our requirements for compliance with sustainability standards,
Business Partners. They must consent to this again after 12 months it is fundamentally not eligible for the award of contracts. There is
if they wish to submit new quotes. We also call on our tier 1 suppliers thus a direct incentive for suppliers to improve their sustainability
to pass our requirements set out in the Code of Conduct for Business performance.
Partners down along the supply chain. In 2022, the Code of Conduct
was revised and the requirements of the German Supply Chain Due
Diligence Act (LkSG) were added. In addition to the Code of Conduct
SUSTAINABILITY RATING
for Business Partners, there are additional product-specific require-
The S rating is a Group-wide tool used to assess the
ments for suppliers. These are set out in the specifications and
sustainability performance of relevant suppliers³ in the
stipulate the way in which certain products must be manufactured.
fields of the environment, social and integrity and to
The requirements include, for example, achieving full disclosure of
mitigate risks. It is directly relevant to awarding contracts.
the cobalt supply chain for battery cells. These requirements are
also binding for the suppliers in question.
2 The relevance of a supplier for media screening results from factors including the procurement volume or the risk exposure derived from the type of product or service.
³ The relevance of a supplier for the S rating results from factors including the size of the company or the risk exposure derived from the type of product or service.
STHGIR
NAMUH
DNA
NIAHC
YLPPUS
The check for the S rating takes place via a multistage process. In an Sustainability Training for Employees and Suppliers
initial step, the risk exposure is identified from a combination of Systematic training of our employees and suppliers is a central
country risk and the supplier’s corporate processes and policies. In component of our strategy and essential for the improvement of
addition, the companies’ sustainability performance is checked in sustainability in the supply chain.
on-site spot checks.
For all Procurement employees, the topic of sustainability is an
A specialist service provider is used for the identification of the established part of the skills profile. The training course on sustain-
country risk. We check whether suppliers’ corporate processes and ability for procurement was taken more than 2,000 times in total
guidelines meet our requirements by means of a standardized worldwide in 2022. Our training measures continue to also be geared
questionnaire for self-assessment. We developed the self-assessment to specific target groups. For example, buyers of components asso-
questionnaire (SAQ) in a joint project with other automotive corpora- ciated with higher sustainability risks were given an intensive
tions involved in the DRIVE Sustainability Working Group organized training program in a separate format. Since 2017, we have trained
by CSR Europe. Relevant topics were added to the SAQ to prepare for our Procurement employees to deal with the special challenges
the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (LkSG). The information found in battery supply chains.
and documents in the SAQ are checked and validated by a service
provider via a central platform: If a supplier states that it has appro- In 2022,
priate processes and guidelines, it must prove this with documents.
2,900
Every supplier that the S rating applies to must meet the requirements
more than
enshrined in the questionnaire in the areas of corporate governance,
the environment, social issues, human rights, compliance and
suppliers were trained
supplier management. Since this reporting year, selected questions
on sustainability globally.
in the SAQ have been considered mandatory as minimum require-
ments for all suppliers from a site size of ten employees. As of this
year, proof of a certified and/or validated environmental manage- In order to facilitate continuous supplier development, we usually
ment system is also mandatory for all suppliers with a production conduct issue-specific sustainability training courses and workshops
site and a site size of 100 employees or more. Suppliers in the scope with our suppliers at selected locations or online and offer web-
who do not have an existing environmental management certificate based training. More than 2,900 suppliers were trained accordingly
may submit a letter of commitment pledging the completion of in the reporting period. This includes 245 suppliers who use the
certification in the near future during a transition phase. A supplier Drive Sustainability initiative’s online training and e-learning op-
is not eligible for the award of contracts unless it meets the mini- tions.4 Voluntary, in-depth human rights training for suppliers has
mum requirements. been available since 2020 and was run again in 2022.
In addition, suppliers who we have identified as having an increased In addition to the trainings, we make an e-learning module on sus-
corruption risk due to their business and region are also subjected tainability available to current suppliers in nine languages.
to a more in-depth corruption risk audit. This process is called the
business partner due diligence (BPDD) process and is carried out DEEP DIVE MEASURES: FURTHER ELEMENTS OF OUR RESC
before any decision to award a contract. In addition, all relevant SYSTEM
business partners will then also be continuously checked for any
change in general conditions through risk and news screening. There Human Rights Focus System
were a total of 487 business partner due diligence reviews in the In our sustainable supply management, we are also involved in
reporting year. protecting groups of people who may be subject to a high risk of
potential human rights violations at any point in our supply chain.
We are also working continuously on avoiding duplication when We implemented a human rights focus system (HRFS) in 2022 to
auditing and, to achieve broader coverage of the supply chain, are comply with international frameworks and requirements and
partnering with original equipment manufacturers (OEM) and sup- specifically the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (LkSG). The
pliers in a German Association of the Automotive Industry (VDA) system aims to identify particularly high risks in our supply chain
task force to create a common standard for on-site audits. To this end, in connection with human rights violations and the environment
major Volkswagen Group companies founded the Responsible and to manage these appropriately. To this end, we evaluated
Supply Chain Initiative e.V. in 2021 together with 11 additional aggregated data from our supply chain grievance mechanism, the
partners, and this initiative continued to grow in the reporting year. on-site checks and information from studies, NGO reports and
First pilot projects of the on-site-check standard were run in connec- stakeholder conversations in the reporting year in order to draw
tion with this in 2022. up a long list of relevant topics. For 2023, we plan to use this to
4 Change in methodology: scope expansion for training in 2022.
STHGIR
NAMUH
DNA
NIAHC
YLPPUS
decide on focus activities, which will then be addressed during the Increasing transparency is an important prerequisite for identifying,
year. A toolbox of measures will be developed to address these focus avoiding and mitigating human rights risks in the upstream supply
topics. This will be used from 2023 for mitigating the risks identified. chain. To this end, the Volkswagen Group works closely with its direct
suppliers and business partners in the context of the raw material
Raw Material Due Diligence Management System due diligence management system.
With regard to the responsible sourcing of raw materials, the
Volkswagen Group implements the five steps of the OECD Due Dili- We cooperate with, among others, service providers who enable
gence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct and the require- suppliers to be comprehensively audited using artificial intelligence.
ments of the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Here, permanent real-time monitoring of freely available internet
Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. In sources, including social media, provides us with indications of
2020, we implemented an OECD-oriented raw material due diligence possible breaches by suppliers.
management system. It serves to identify, assess and avoid actual and
potential human rights risks in our upstream raw material supply Because the human-rights-related risks are often highest at the start
chains and currently encompasses 16 particularly risky raw materials. of the supply chain and these can be countered most effectively
These include the battery raw materials cobalt, lithium, nickel and here, direct collaboration with mine operators on the certification of
graphite, the conflict minerals tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold (3TG), mines is an additional part of our strategy. In this way, we intend to
and aluminum, copper, leather, mica, steel, natural rubber, platinum audit, assess and improve the sustainability performance of the
group metals and rare earths.⁵ mines in our supply chain in the medium term.
With this risk-based approach, we prioritize our activities on the Collaboration with External Partners and Involvement in
basis of the severity and probability of breaches of the law and on the International Initiatives
basis of the Group’s influence. We also systematically use our Group In addition to close collaboration with our direct and indirect sup-
structure for developing and implementing specific prevention pliers, we get involved in initiatives and local projects to address
and mitigation measures, whose effectiveness we audit. New report human rights risks in the upstream supply chain and beyond our
structures and toolkits have been developed and existing tools, such contractual relationships. These cross-industry and, in some cases,
as the supply chain grievance mechanism, have been integrated raw-material-specific initiatives are listed in our Responsible Raw
in the management system. Depending on the results of the due Materials Report. The aims of collaboration with partners in the
diligence process, the measures are adapted and improved on an automotive industry and along the value chain include knowledge
ongoing basis. transfer, the development of standardized tools for risk assessment
and the introduction of standards for responsible raw material
Since 2021, the Volkswagen Group has also reported on the obser- supply chains with respect to human rights, the environment and
vation of its human rights due diligence obligations in the raw compliance.
material supply chain – including reporting on the status, progress
and goals of the raw material due diligence management system – In the reporting year, the Volkswagen Group and its brands joined
in an annual Responsible Raw Materials Report. The Group’s specific additional important initiatives. For example, Volkswagen AG has
activities and measures regarding the 16 particularly risky raw been a member of the Initiative for Responsible Mining Assurance
materials are also set out there. (IRMA) since February 2022. IRMA is a multi-stakeholder alliance
that advocates for high standards in mining. The IRMA standards
www.volkswagenag.com > Sustainability > encompass the protection of human rights and the rights of local
Reporting & ESG Performance > Sustainability Report communities, the exclusion of corruption, health protection mea-
sures, occupational safety, and environmental protection. In the re-
porting year, the Volkswagen Group also became a member of the
Leather Working Group. Porsche joined the Responsible Mica Initia-
tive in 2022.
⁵ The risk scope of the management system goes beyond Annex 2 of the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas.
STHGIR
NAMUH
DNA
NIAHC
YLPPUS
For battery raw materials, especially cobalt, we pursue the objective PROGRESS AND DEVELOPMENTS AMONG OUR SUPPLIERS
of creating supply chain transparency from mining the raw materi-
als to manufacturing the finished product. We have been passing A total of more than 16,029 active suppliers⁶ completed an SAQ in
the requirement for full transparency on to our direct battery sup- connection with the S rating. In the reporting period, 6,748 suppliers
pliers in our contracts since 2020. Volkswagen has the data received improved their sustainability performance through taking appro-
audited and verified by partner companies through second-party priate steps. Based on sales revenue, more than 85% of our suppliers
supply chain mapping audits. In the Cobalt for Development project with a production site and a site size of 100 employees or more have
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, we work together with documented that they have a certified environmental management
partners for improved working and living conditions for small-scale system in accordance with ISO 14001 or validation in accordance
cobalt miners and their communities. The pilot project aims to with EMAS or a letter of commitment.⁷
strengthen compliance with laws and improve health and safety
conditions and social well-being for people locally. Additional in- Following an initial analysis of the supplier data, in-depth audits are
formation is available on the project website. carried out on-site, based on risk. 252 on-site audits were carried out
worldwide in 2022. On average, six breaches of our sustainability re-
Cobalt for Development (C4D) quirements were identified.⁸ Differences can be seen depending on
the region.
For the battery raw material lithium, the Volkswagen Group, to-
gether with other partners, has created the Responsible Lithium By the end of the reporting year, we had 12,660 S ratings for suppliers,
Partnership initiative, which works towards responsible use of re- accounting for around 75% of total procurement expenditure. Of
sources and sustainable lithium production in Salar de Atacama in these suppliers, 6,618 have an A rating. 65 suppliers were rated C and
Chile. This is to be achieved through a multi-stakeholder platform are thus not currently eligible for the award of contracts. Suppliers
comprising all the relevant players in the Salar watershed – from who do not meet our requirements for compliance with our sus-
civil society groups, including indigenous communities, through tainability standards are also not eligible for the award of contracts.
government institutions to local mining companies.
6,618
Beyond raw material activities, our involvement in the industry-led
initiative DRIVE Sustainability under the umbrella of CSR Europe
remains key. The development of the common questionnaire stan- suppliers have
dard for auditing sustainability aspects of suppliers was a mile- an A rating.
stone in this respect, as was the training approach for suppliers
pursued jointly with other OEMs via training events in selected
countries. In the reporting period, 145 reports of breaches from the supply chain
grievance mechanism were dealt with. In total, four suppliers were
blocked from eligibility for the award of new contracts due to seri-
ous breaches.
⁶ Change in methodology: in 2021, active SAQs from suppliers without revenue were also taken into account.
⁷ Change in methodology: Scope in the previous year took account of production sites of suppliers of production material (direct material). In this reporting year, the production sites of suppli-
ers of general material (indirect material) were also taken into account.
⁸ Scope: excluding on-site checks at logistics service providers.
STHGIR
NAMUH
DNA
NIAHC
YLPPUS
SUPPLY CHAIN AND HUMAN RIGHTS KPIS¹
KPI Unit 2022 2021 Notes and comments
Direct suppliers number > 59,000 > 60,000
Countries in which Volkswagen has direct suppliers number > 90 almost 100
Experts in the Sustainability Procurement Network number > 70 > 50
Human rights checks Gap analysis of companies that were
added to the scope of compliance
Companies for which a risk assessment in the number 805 782 In the reporting year, a risk assessment
area of human rights is available was repeated or carried out for the first
time for 51 companies.
For sites, associated number of countries for number 82 82 In the reporting year, a risk assessment
which a risk assessment in the area of human of 18 countries associated with sites was
rights is available conducted again or for the first time.
Training and certification
Revenue-based direct suppliers in scope with in % 85 78 Change in methodology: scope in the
certified environmental management system previous year took account of produc-
pursuant to ISO 14001 or EMAS validation or tion sites of suppliers of production
letter of commitment material (direct material). In this report-
ing year, the production sites of suppli-
ers of general material (indirect mate-
rial) were also taken into account.
Procurement staff who have participated in number > 2,000 1,900
training measures on the topic of sustainability
Direct suppliers who have received training on number > 2,900 > 1,000 Change in methodology: scope ex-
the topic of sustainability pansion for training in 2022; previous
year’s figure not adjusted
Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ)²
Direct suppliers with completed SAQ number 16,029 15,532
Proportion of new suppliers who have been in % 12 – Direct suppliers who were assessed for
assessed using social and environmental criteria the first time in the reporting year
Improvements in direct suppliers number 6,748 6,353
based on the SAQ
S rating
Existing S ratings for direct suppliers number 12,660 12,483
of which direct suppliers with an number 6,618 3,524
A rating
of which direct suppliers with a number 65 91
C rating
Revenue percentage of direct suppliers with in % 75 around 85
S rating in total purchasing volume
Business partner due diligence reviews number 487 1,513 Of suppliers
1 Change in methodology: All supplier-based KPIs reported in this chapter only take account of direct suppliers with revenue in 2022. Previous year’s figure not adjusted.
2 Change in methodology: In 2021, active SAQs from suppliers without revenue were also taken into account.
STHGIR
NAMUH
DNA
NIAHC
YLPPUS
KPI Unit 2022 2021 Notes and comments
On-site audits (checks)
Number of on-site checks carried out as part of number 252 654
the S Rating
Average breaches of sustainability requirements Excluding on-site checks at logistics
by region service providers
Africa number 4 4 The region’s top 3 risks: fire
extinguishers, emergency lighting,
emergency exits & evacuation routes,
evacuation drills, fire detection, organi-
zation, exposure & response to chemi-
cals and hazardous materials
(5 risks with an identical rating)
Asia³-Pacific number 10 7 The region’s top 3 risks: working hour
violations, payment violations, supply
chain management
Europe number 4 5 The region’s top 3 risks: supply chain
management, license to operate and
Code of Conduct, evacuation drills
North America number 6 6 The region’s top 3 risks: organization
occupational health & safety, organiza-
tion fire safety & emergency evacuation,
license to operate and Code of Conduct
South America number 9 5 The region’s top 3 risks: supply chain
management, license to operate and
Code of Conduct, evacuation drills
Supply chain grievance mechanism
Reports from supply chain number 145 111
grievance mechanism
Temporary blocking of suppliers number 4 4
Reports from supply chain grievance mechanism: Because a report may include several
number by region suppliers, the sum of this KPI may be
higher than the number of reports.
Europe number 100 74
Asia³-Pacific number 28 9
Africa number 5 2
North America number 18 17
South America number 4 3
No classification possible number 11 6
Reports from supply chain grievance mechanism:
number by context
Social number 36 26
Compliance number 34 66
Environment number 10 12
Cross-topic number 14 7
Other number 51 – Plausibility of reports not yet checked
Reports from supply chain grievance mechanism:
direct supplier
Yes number 98 70
No number 47 41
³ Scope: In terms of geographical distribution, Russia and Türkiye are allocated to Asia.
STHGIR
NAMUH
DNA
NIAHC
YLPPUS
115
Independent Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report
118
Contact Information
The assurance engagement performed by Ernst & Young (EY) relates These responsibilities of the Company’s executive directors include
exclusively to the German version of the combined non-financial the selection and application of appropriate non-financial reporting
report 2022 of Volkswagen AG. The following text is a translation of methods and making assumptions and estimates about individual
the original German independent assurance report. non-financial disclosures that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Furthermore, the executive directors are responsible for such inter-
nal control as the executive directors consider necessary to enable
the preparation of a combined non-financial report that is free from
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON material misstatement, whether due to fraud (manipulation of the
combined non-financial report) or error.
A LIMITED ASSURANCE ENGAGEMENT
The EU Taxonomy Regulation and the Delegated Acts adopted
thereunder contain wording and terms that are still subject to con-
TO VOLKSWAGEN AG, WOLFSBURG siderable interpretation uncertainties and for which clarifications
have not yet been published in every case. Therefore, the executive
We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the separate directors have disclosed their interpretation of the EU Taxonomy
non-financial report of Volkswagen AG, Wolfsburg, (hereinafter the Regulation and the Delegated Acts adopted thereunder in the chapter
“Company”), which is combined with the separate non-financial re- “EU Taxonomy” of the combined non-financial report. They are
port of the Group (hereinafter the “combined non-financial report”), responsible for the defensibility of this interpretation. Due to the
for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2022. The combined immanent risk that undefined legal terms may be interpreted dif-
non-financial report is included in the Sustainability Report 2022. ferently, the legal conformity of the interpretation is subject to
uncertainties.
Not included in the combined non-financial report are the paragraphs
listed in chapter “About this Report” in section “Basis for Report” of INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY ASSURANCE OF THE
the Sustainability Report (Foreword, The German Corporate Gover- AUDITOR’S FIRM
nance Code – A Blueprint for Successful Corporate Governance, Further
Information and The Volkswagen Value Chain, Making the Social We have complied with the German professional requirements on
and Environmental Impact of Our Actions Measurable), references independence as well as other professional conduct requirements.
to disclosures made outside the combined non- financial report
(e.g., references to disclosures in the Annual Report or to additional Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements and profes-
sustainability disclosures of the Company in the internet), disclosures sional pronouncements – in particular the BS WP/vBP (“Berufssat-
below the page headers that reference the Standards of the Global zung für Wirtschaftsprüfer/vereidigte Buchprüfer”: Professional
Reporting Initiative (GRI) as well as the Company’s disclosure that Charter for German Public Accountants/German Sworn Auditors in
the Sustainability Report systematically uses the GRI Standards (with the exercise of their Profession) and the IDW Standard on Quality
reference to) as the underlying structure for reporting on manage- Management issued by the Institute of Public Auditors in Germany
ment approaches and the specific standard disclosures. The afore- (IDW): Requirements for Quality Management in the Audit Firm
mentioned disclosures were therefore not subject to our assurance (IDW QS 1) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive quality man-
engagement. agement system that includes documented policies and procedures
with regard to compliance with professional ethical requirements,
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS professional standards as well as relevant statutory and other legal
requirements.
The executive directors of the Company are responsible for the
preparation of the combined non-financial report in accordance RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDITOR
with §§ 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB (“Handelsgesetz-
buch”: German Commercial Code) and Art. 8 of Regulation (EU) Our responsibility is to express a conclusion with limited assurance
2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June on the combined non-financial report based on our assurance
2020 on the establishment of a framework to facilitate sustainable engagement.
investment and amending Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 (hereinafter
the “EU Taxonomy Regulation”) and the Delegated Acts adopted
thereunder as well as in accordance with their own interpretation
of the wording and terms contained in the EU Taxonomy Regulation
and the Delegated Acts adopted thereunder as set out in the chapter
“EU Taxonomy” of the combined non-financial report.
XIDNEPPA
We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with Inter- • I nquiries of the employees regarding the selection of topics for
national Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): the combined non-financial report, the risk assessment and the
“Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical concepts of the Company and Group for the topics identified as
Financial Information” issued by the IAASB. This standard requires material,
that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited • Inquiries of employees of the Company and the Group responsible
assurance about whether any matters have come to our attention for data capture and consolidation, about the data capture and
that cause us to believe that the Company’s combined non-financial compilation methods as well as internal controls to the extent
report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with relevant for the assurance of the disclosures in the combined
§§ 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB and the EU Taxonomy non-financial report,
Regulation and the Delegated Acts adopted thereunder as well as • I dentification of likely risks of material misstatement in the
the interpretation by the executive directors disclosed in chapter combined non-financial report,
“EU Taxonomy” of the combined non-financial report. • A nalytical procedures on selected disclosures in the combined
non-financial report at the level of the Company and the Group,
Not included in the combined non-financial report are the paragraphs • I nquiries and inspection of documents relating to the collection
listed in chapter “About this Report” in section “Basis for Report” of and reporting of selected qualitative disclosures and data,
the Sustainability Report (Foreword, The German Corporate Gover- • R econciliation of selected disclosures with the corresponding
nance Code – A Blueprint for Successful Corporate Governance, Further data in the annual financial statements and management report,
Information and The Volkswagen Value Chain, Making the Social • E valuation of the implementation of group management re-
and Environmental Impact of Our Actions Measurable), references quirements, processes and specifications regarding data capture
to disclosures made outside the combined non- financial report through onsite visits at selected sites of the Volkswagen Group
(e.g., references to disclosures in the Annual Report or to additional
sustainability disclosures of the Company in the internet), disclosures – Volkswagen AG (Wolfsburg, Germany)
below the page headers that reference the Standards of the Global – Volkswagen AG (Salzgitter, Germany)
Reporting Initiative (GRI) as well as the Company’s disclosure that – AUDI AG (Neckarsulm, Germany)
the Sustainability Report systematically uses the GRI Standards (with – SCANIA CV AB (Oskarshamn, Sweden)
reference to) as the underlying structure for reporting on manage- – Volkswagen Group South Africa (Kariega, RSA)
ment approaches and the specific standard disclosures. The afore- – FAW-Volkswagen Automotive Co. Ltd. (Foshan, China)
mentioned disclosures were therefore not subject to our assurance – SAIC Volkswagen Automotive Co. Ltd. Shanghai (Ningbo,
engagement. China)
– ŠKODA AUTO a.s. (Kvasiny, Czech Republic)
In a limited assurance engagement, the procedures performed are – Volkswagen BR (Anchieta, Brazil),
less extensive than in a reasonable assurance engagement, and ac-
cordingly, a substantially lower level of assurance is obtained. The • E valuation of the process to identify the taxonomy-eligible and
selection of the assurance procedures is subject to the professional taxonomy-compliant economic activities as well as the corre-
judgment of the auditor. sponding disclosures in the combined non-financial report,
• E valuation of the presentation of the combined non-financial
In the course of our assurance engagement we have, among other report.
things, performed the following assurance procedures and other
activities: In determining the disclosures in accordance with Art. 8 of the EU
Taxonomy Regulation, the executive directors are required to in-
• G ain an understanding of the structure of the sustainability terpret undefined legal terms. Due to the immanent risk that unde-
organization and stakeholder engagement, fined legal terms may be interpreted differently, the legal conformity
• I nquiries of relevant employees involved in the preparation of of their interpretation and, accordingly, our assurance engagement
the combined non-financial report about the preparation process, thereon are subject to uncertainties.
about the internal control system related to this process, and
about disclosures in the combined non-financial report,
XIDNEPPA
ASSURANCE CONCLUSION purpose than the aforementioned. Accordingly, the report is not in-
tended to be used by third parties for making (financial) decisions
Based on the assurance procedures performed and the evidence based on it. Our responsibility is to the Company alone. We do not
obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to be- accept any responsibility to third parties. Our assurance conclusion
lieve that the combined non-financial report of the Company for is not modified in this respect.
the period from 1 January to 31 December 2022 is not prepared, in
all material respects, in accordance with §§ 315c in conjunction with GENERAL ENGAGEMENT TERMS AND LIABILITY
289c to 289e HGB and the EU Taxonomy Regulation and the Dele-
gated Acts adopted thereunder as well as the interpretation by the The “General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer and Wirt-
executive directors as disclosed in the chapter “EU Taxonomy” of schaftsprüfungsgesellschaften (German Public Auditors and Public
the combined non-financial report. Audit Firms)” dated 1 January 2017 are applicable to this engagement
and also govern our relations with third parties in the context of
We do not express an assurance conclusion on the disclosures that this engagement (www.de.ey.com/general-engagement-terms). In
are not part of the combined non-financial report and that were addition, please refer to the liability provisions contained there in
therefore not subject to our assurance engagement. These are the no. 9 and to the exclusion of liability towards third parties. We accept
paragraphs listed in chapter “About This Report” in section “Basis no responsibility, liability or other obligations towards third parties
for Report” of the Sustainability Report (Foreword, The German unless we have concluded a written agreement to the contrary with
Corporate Governance Code – A Blueprint for Successful Corporate the respective third party or liability cannot effectively be precluded.
Governance, Further Information and The Volkswagen Value Chain,
Making the Social and Environmental Impact of Our Actions We make express reference to the fact that we will not update the
Measurable), references to disclosures made outside the combined report to reflect events or circumstances arising after it was issued,
non-financial report (e.g., references to disclosures in the Annual unless required to do so by law. It is the sole responsibility of any-
Report or to additional sustainability disclosures of the Company one taking note of the summarized result of our work contained in
in the internet), disclosures below the page headers that reference this report to decide whether and in what way this information is
the Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as well as the useful or suitable for their purposes and to supplement, verify or
Company’s disclosure that the Sustainability Report systematically update it by means of their own review procedures.
uses the GRI Standards (with reference to) as the underlying struc-
ture for reporting on management approaches and the specific
standard disclosures. Hanover, 3 March 2023
Ernst & Young GmbH
RESTRICTION OF USE Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
We draw attention to the fact that the assurance engagement was
conducted for the Company’s purposes and that the report is in- Nicole Richter Hans-Georg Welz
tended solely to inform the Company about the result of the assur- Wirtschaftsprüferin Wirtschaftsprüfer
ance engagement. As a result, it may not be suitable for another (German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor)
XIDNEPPA
CONTACT INFORMATION
GRI 2-3
PUBLISHED BY
Volkswagen AG
Group Sustainability
Letterbox 011/1265
38436 Wolfsburg
Germany
CONTACT
info@volkswagen-nachhaltigkeit.de
MAIN EDITING
Volkswagen AG
CONCEPT AND EDITING
Volkswagen AG
Scholz & Friends Reputation DISCLAIMER
At the brands of the Volkswagen Group, work on all types and models
DESIGN never ceases, so please allow for the fact that changes in design,
Scholz & Friends BuyQ GmbH & metagate GmbH equipment and technical specifications may be made at any time.
Consequently, the data and descriptions in this report cannot give
ENGLISH TRANSLATION AND EDITING rise to claims of any kind.
Leinhäuser Language Services GmbH
The German version of the nonfinancial report is binding. The
IMAGE SOURCES English version is a convenience translation for information pur-
Volkswagen Group and its Group brands poses only.
PUBLICATION YOUR FEEDBACK
March 2023 In the interests of improving and advancing our commitment
to sustainability, we would be delighted to receive your feedback on
© Volkswagen AG our sustainability report. You can send us your views directly on-
Errors and omissions excepted line using the email address on the left.
NOITAMROFNI
TCATNOC