Environmental, Social
and Governance
Summary Report
FY2022
Contents
INTRODUCTION 3 COMMUNITY 36
About our reporting 4 Serving communities 37
Year at a glance FY2022 6 Safer, healthier food and other products 39
Leadership letters 8 Disaster preparedness & response 40
Our company 10
ETHICS & INTEGRITY 41
Our approach to ESG 12
Ethics & compliance 42
OPPORTUNITY 15
Corporate governance 43
Human capital: Good jobs & Engagement in public policy 44
advancement for associates 16
Digital citizenship: Ethical use of data
Equity & inclusion at Walmart and beyond 20 & responsible use of technology 45
Supplier opportunity 23 Human rights 46
SUSTAINABILITY 24 ENDNOTES 47
Product supply chain sustainability 25
Climate change 27
Waste: Circular economy 30
Regeneration of natural resources:
Forests, land, oceans 32
2
People in supply chains 34
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Introduction
3
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
About our reporting
Walmart has reported on a wide range of ESG issues since 2005. Our reporting is focused
on our priority ESG issues—issues that we believe are the most relevant to our business and
important to our stakeholders.
This Annual Summary provides an overview of our shared value the Walmart Inc. consolidated financial statements, unless
approach to ESG, ESG priorities and key highlights. The Annual otherwise noted.
Summary covers our activities during the fiscal year ending
This report also covers some activities of the Walmart
January 31, 2022 (FY2022), except as otherwise noted. Calendar
Foundation, a separately incorporated Delaware charitable
years (CY) are marked as such or written in a four-digit format.
private foundation. “Walmart.org” is used to refer to the
Beginning in 2021, our reporting has been centered around a
collective philanthropy of Walmart Inc. and the Walmart
series of ESG issue briefs covering each of Walmart’s priority
Foundation.
ESG issues in depth. Each of the 17 briefs covers our aspiration
and strategy with respect to that issue, the relevance of the As discussed in Walmart’s fiscal year 2022 annual report on
issue to business and society, our key goals and metrics and our Form 10-K, the COVID-19 pandemic impacted Walmart’s
progress to date. These briefs will be updated from time to time business in many ways throughout FY2022, including through
and may not align with fiscal year reporting periods. As we cover net-sales growth and strong comparable sales in a majority of in certain instances third parties assisted in the process of
each issue in this summary, we will provide links to the relevant our international markets, pandemic-related costs, changes in collecting, analyzing and calculating information presented in
issue brief or briefs. customer shopping patterns and employment trends. As the this Annual Summary.
pandemic and related trends evolve in FY2023 and beyond,
All references to “Walmart” in our ESG reporting are to Our reporting is guided by frameworks, such as the Global
impacts on Walmart’s business may also evolve.
Walmart Inc., a Delaware corporation and its consolidated Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards, Sustainability Accounting
subsidiaries that were subsidiaries during the reporting period, We sought and received external assurance from a third party Standards Board (SASB), the Task Force on Climate-related
excluding all acquired eCommerce businesses, platforms and/ with respect to certain emissions information reported in this Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and the United Nations (U.N.)
or marketplaces, unless otherwise noted. Financial information Annual Summary. We did not seek or receive external assurance Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We also report through
referenced in our ESG reporting reflects the scope of from third parties with respect to other information, although programs such as CDP, a global environmental disclosure system.
4
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
FORWARD‑LOOKING STATEMENTS factors discussed in Item 1A of our most recent Annual Report
on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q
This Annual Summary contains certain forward-looking
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC); they
statements based on Walmart management’s current
also include the challenges, assumptions and dependencies
assumptions and expectations, including statements regarding
identified in our ESG issue briefs.
our ESG targets, goals, commitments and programs and other
business plans, initiatives and objectives. These statements are We urge you to consider all of the risks, uncertainties and
typically accompanied by the words “aim,” “hope,” “believe,” factors identified above or discussed in such reports carefully
“estimate,” “plan,” “aspire” or similar words. All such statements in evaluating the forward-looking statements in this report.
are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for Walmart cannot assure you that the results reflected or implied
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E by any forward-looking statement will be realized or, even if
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. substantially realized, that those results will have the forecasted
or expected consequences and effects. The forward-looking
Our actual future results, including the achievement of our
statements in our reporting are made as of the effective date
targets, goals or commitments, could differ materially from
identified on the issue brief, unless otherwise indicated and
our projected results as the result of changes in circumstances,
we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking
assumptions not being realized, or other risks, uncertainties and
statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
factors. Such risks, uncertainties and factors include the risk
Reporting resources
Click to find resources on our ESG website
SASB
5
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY
Committed to help protect, 50M 1M
>$16.50 $35M
more sustainably manage, or
average hourly wage1 invested of the $100 million Walmart.org restore, by 2030, at least acres of land and square miles of ocean
in the U.S. Center for Racial Equity commitment
100% 17.5% Global private brand
58% packaging estimated
to be recyclable,
associates enrolled in Live 100% of LBU students’ college
reduction in scopes
reusable or industrially
Better U since program tuition and books paid for by
1 and 2 emissions
compostable4,5,6
launched in 2018 Walmart as of August 2021 (2020 vs. 2015 baseline)2,3
U.S. management7
>4.5K >574M
promotions went to
of our suppliers engaged in metric tons of CO e
2
Project Gigaton™ since 2017 reduced or avoided,
>$13.3B ~2.6K 45% 40%
cumulative since 20179
Women People
in goods and services diverse suppliers for of color
s ourced from... our U.S. businesses8
6
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Year at a glance FY2022
Year at a glance FY2022
COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY
Provided anti-corruption training to
~230M >$1.5B
>2M
Providing access to customers per week in
in cash and in-kind donations
associates trained
affordable, quality food, thousands of communities
globally provided by Walmart
in ethics
other essential products globally10 associates
and the Walmart Foundation
and services to
Board of Directors 11
>$132M
>5.1K
Partnered with
18%
27%
the Data & Trust Alliance
COVID-19 vaccination sites in cash and in-kind donations, provided
racially/
supported across all U.S. Walmart by Walmart, Sam’s Club and the Walmart
women
ethnically to adopt a toolkit for evaluating
and Sam’s Club pharmacies Foundation, since 2016 to support community
diverse
algorithmic bias in workforce decisions.
preparedness and disaster relief
17%
RECOGNITION
>18K
7B
>356K
100%
reduction in priority
A- No. 15
U.S. associates
chemical footprint pounds of food donated hours volunteered score No. 26
through the
(2020 vs. 2017 baseline), to Feeding America food for local causes by…
ranked in Fortune
Volunteerism Always
exceeding our 10% goal12,13 banks since 200614 Change the World ranked in DiversityInc.’s
Pays program
CDP 2021 2021 – 7th consecutive 2021 Disability 2022 Top Companies for
7
year on the list Diversity
Climate Rating E quality Index
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Leadership letters
A MESSAGE FROM OUR CHIEF this approach in all aspects of our business and help guide us. company donated more than $1.5 billion in cash, food and other
Throughout our journey, we have set goals, measured progress products globally. Our experience confirms for us that, when
EXECUTIVE OFFICER
and reported on that progress. And we continually push we understand what a community needs and partner with
As the world continues to change, I’m often asked, “What
ourselves, which is why we elevated our aspiration by making a others, we can strengthen the environment to create more
is the role of business in society today?” Our founder, Sam
commitment to become a regenerative company—one that puts opportunities for the people who live there and end up with a
Walton, gave us a timeless and meaningful purpose to save
people and nature at the center of our business practices. This stronger business.
people money and help them live a better life. As we celebrate
commitment touches all parts of our business. It is anchored
Regeneration also means strengthening our planet. This spring,
Walmart’s 60th anniversary this year, that purpose still guides
in our purpose—and we do that in a way that strives to create
we hit a major milestone with Project Gigaton™: We are halfway
us as we work to create environmental, social and economic
equitable opportunity for our associates and suppliers, enhance
toward our goal to reduce or avoid one billion metric tons of
progress in ways that strengthen our business and benefit our
the sustainability of retail and product supply chains, help
greenhouse gases from the global supply chain by 2030. Since
stakeholders. We believe a business’s long-term success will
create more resilient communities and operate with the highest
2017, our suppliers have reported a cumulative total of more
depend on its work to help create a strong, resilient society
standards of ethics and integrity.
than 574 million metric tons of emissions reduced or avoided.
—for all.
Having a healthy business for the long-term requires healthy Additionally, we recently raised $2 billion through our first green
In 2005, we committed to shifting our mindset and broadening
relationships and a healthy planet. It also requires trust. It starts bond and for the past four years we have received an A or A-
our view to take a multi-stakeholder approach to our business.
with us living our value of acting with integrity. We aim to do score from CDP for our transparency on climate action.
This means not only do we want to be the primary destination
that throughout all our work.
After 60 years in business, we are reflecting on the moments of
for our customers and return value to our shareholders, but
There is a path of opportunity for everyone here. As I’ve visited celebration, challenge and change throughout our history. These
we want to do it in a way that creates value for all stakeholders
stores, clubs and DCs over the past year, I’ve enjoyed talking milestones have a way of making you think about the future.
—including our associates, suppliers and other partners,
with the many associates who are creating long, meaningful Though you’ll see some of the progress we’ve made this past
communities and the planet. As we engage and serve our
careers at Walmart. Last year, we promoted more than year in this report, we know there’s more to be done. We will
stakeholders, we grow and strengthen our business—and vice
135,000 associates to positions of greater responsibility and continue to look for ways to make a difference and remain eager
versa. If the past couple years have reinforced anything, it’s the
we continue to support and invest in them with job training, to collaborate—we need more businesses and NGOs, as well as
need for this kind of shared value approach.
rising wages and by making it easier to gain a college degree governments, to get involved and do more. This work requires
At Walmart, this isn’t something sprinkled throughout our
or certificate by covering the costs of tuition and books collective action.
business or added on as an afterthought—we strive to use
through our Live Better U program. In the U.S., 40 percent
When our children and grandchildren look back at the work
of management promotions went to people of color and
we’re doing now, I hope it’s clear we were part of the solution—
45 percent to women. Creating opportunities for people is an
working every day to make this world a better place. For as long
important part of our work to become a regenerative company
as we’re on this planet, Walmart will keep doing just that.
and we believe our success will depend on advancing prosperity
and equity for all.
It is also at the heart of our work with communities. When
disaster strikes, we are there with food, water and helping
Doug McMillon
hands—but we are there every day strengthening communities.
President and Chief Executive Officer
Last year, in the U.S. alone, our associates volunteered close
8 Walmart Inc.
to 1,000 hours a day to causes they care about and the
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
A MESSAGE FROM OUR CHIEF making. Yet we are encouraged by emerging shifts in mindsets, A rose by any other name… Debates have intensified about
practices, resource flows and policies within each of these terminology—ESG, stakeholder capitalism, inclusive capitalism,
SUSTAINABILITY OFFICER
arenas as well as progress within our own company. shared value, etc.—and whether all of this is just a passing fad.
As we go to press, the world faces uncertainty: COVID-19 waves Our view is simple: a company’s long-term success depends
Climate action: more than promises. In the lead up to COP26 in
continue; inflation has kicked up while supply chains remain on its performance on the societal issues most relevant to its
Glasgow, many companies set goals to help the world get to
volatile; the effects of climate change have intensified; social business and stakeholders. We can’t have a strong business
net-zero emissions. Walmart has been engaging in climate action
divides seem to have widened. without a thriving planet and the trust and engagement of
since 2005 and enlisting suppliers to do the same since the
customers, associates, suppliers, investors, civic partners and
Yet despite such challenges—or as much spurred on by them— launch of Project Gigaton™ in 2017. This year we reported that we
communities. And the fundamentals of that are here to stay.
we are more committed than ever to our efforts to become continue to make progress toward our science-based targets for
a regenerative company, one that puts humanity and nature emissions reduction (for example, reporting a 17.5% reduction in We remain optimistic. In Walmart communities around the world,
at the center of our business practices. We believe that we FY2021 relative to our 2015 baseline for Scope 1 and 2 emissions) our customers, associates, suppliers and civic partners help one
maximize the value of our company for our customers and and we significantly expanded our efforts and disclosures another live better every day in a million ways, big and small.
other stakeholders by tackling relevant, pressing societal issues related to our nature goals. Thank you for your engagement to make us a better company.
through business.
No simple solutions. When it comes to complex societal issues,
In the pages of this year’s FY2022 Summary and the stakeholders don’t always agree on the way forward and there
accompanying ESG Issue Briefs, we share our aspirations, can be many obstacles to progress. Through our ESG reporting,
strategies, progress and challenges related to our priority we aim to provide insight into Walmart’s theories of change,
environmental, social and governance issues. A few observations systemic challenges and the efforts of Walmart teams and our Kathleen McLaughlin
about our FY2022 disclosures: partners to overcome them. EVP and Chief Sustainability Officer
Walmart Inc.
“Who’s #1? The customer, always.” In a year where so many Decision-useful reporting. Investors have asked businesses for
communities turned to Walmart for access to affordable food, more consistent and relevant ESG information. Nobody wants
consumables, COVID-19 vaccines and other everyday essentials, an avalanche of data or—at the opposite end of the spectrum—
it became clearer than ever that delivering our customer high-level headlines; they want concrete facts regarding policies,
proposition is itself a central ESG contribution. practices and results relevant to the creation of shared value. We
aim to set the standard for decision-useful reporting. This year,
Progress on rewiring systems for equity. Because advancing
we have responded to investor requests for expanded disclosure
equity in society requires transformation of complex systems,
in specific arenas (for example, public policy engagement;
our strategies in arenas such as economic mobility, racial
approach to nature). We continue to aim for consistency and
equity and human rights in supply chains involve long-term,
relevance through the structure of our ESG issue briefs and
intensive collaboration with others on business and philanthropic
approach to metrics (e.g., clear definitions; sharing progress for
initiatives extending beyond the four walls of our company.
the last three fiscal years).
Substantial improvements in outcomes may be years in the
9
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Our company
WALMART’S CORPORATE PURPOSE HOW WALMART CREATES VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS
Walmart’s purpose is to save people money and help them live
Customers: Convenient access to quality, Business Partners: Access to and
better. We provide convenient access to high-quality, affordable
affordable products and services understanding of engaged customers for our
food and other essential products and services to millions of
people each week. In doing so, we aim to create value for our sellers, advertisers and ecosystem partners
stakeholders.
Associates: Purpose-driven work; opportunity
for good jobs and upward mobility Communities: Resources to build stronger,
OUR VALUES
more inclusive communities
Acting with Serving Shareholders: Strong long-term returns
integrity the customer through financial, environmental, social and Planet: Leadership on zero emissions,
governance (ESG) leadership zero waste and our regenerative approach
to nature
Striving for Respecting
excellence the individual
Suppliers: Access to customers and support
for supplier development and growth
OUR BUSINESS IN FY2022
>$572 billion ~2.3 million eCommerce >10,500 7.7% $15.9 billion
in revenue associates grew double-digits stores in two dozen U.S. comp sales returns to
countries growth including fuel shareholders
10
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Transforming EARN PRIMARY DESTINATION Serve customers more broadly, deepen our
(FOOD, CONSUMABLES, GM) relationship and sustain a healthy mix by expanding:
our business
• In store • Delivery
HEALTH & FINANCIAL
ECOMMERCE
• Pick-up • Walmart+ WELLNESS SERVICES
Our flywheel for
• 1P eCommerce • High quality • Trusted
becoming an omni-
• 3P marketplace • Preventative • Digital
channel, regenerative
company • Accessible • Accessible
• Affordable • Affordable
We are transforming our company to
provide customers with a seamless
omni-channel experience in stores and
online—in a way that is regenerative.
By regenerative, we mean fulfilling our REINVEST IN THE
CUSTOMER VALUE
customer mission in a way that creates
MONETIZE SUSTAINABLY
PROPOSITION
value for people and planet: creating
CAPABILITIES LOWER COST
opportunity, enhancing sustainability of
• Assortment
retail product supply chains, strengthening
• Marketplace • Store productivity
communities and upholding the highest
• Price
standards of ethics and integrity.
• Advertising • Supply chain design &
Transforming our business model toward • Experience
automation
an omni-channel, regenerative approach • Data
• Trust
sets up a virtuous cycle that we call our • Digital transformation
• Fulfillment
“flywheel.” Along with our assortment,
• Regenerative
price and experience, we want to make
• Last mile
trust a competitive advantage.
11
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Our approach to ESG
CREATING SHARED VALUE
Shared value—addressing societal issues in ways that create The primary way that we create value for society is by bringing
value for our business and stakeholders—lies at the heart of everyday essentials to people who need them. People need safer
Walmart’s enterprise strategy and our approach to ESG issues. and healthier foods, quality general merchandise and critical
services like pharmacy and healthcare. And they need them at
We believe we maximize long-term value for shareholders by
affordable prices. Sam Walton saw such a need in small-town
serving our stakeholders: delivering value to our customers,
America when he opened the first Walmart in Rogers, Arkansas
creating economic opportunity for associates and suppliers,
in 1962. Sixty years later, Walmart meets that need through its
strengthening local communities and enhancing the
presence in thousands of communities around the world. What’s
environmental and social sustainability of our business and
good for business is good for society and vice versa.
product supply chains. Addressing such societal needs builds
the value of our business by extending our license to operate, Each of our ESG priority issue areas offers a discrete
building customer and associate trust, creating new revenue shared-value proposition: an opportunity to meet a societal
streams, managing cost and risk, building capabilities for future need through our business. In each instance, our aspiration is to
advantage and strengthening the underlying systems we all operate our business in a regenerative way. Doing so aligns our
rely on. In other words, business thrives by serving society: business objectives with societal objectives and increases our
as business strengthens society, serving society strengthens ability to create value for the long term.
business. We aspire to become a regenerative company—helping
to renew people and the planet through our business.
12
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
OUR APPROACH TO PRIORITY OUR ESG PRIORITIES
ESG ISSUES
We prioritize the ESG issues that offer the greatest potential for Walmart to create shared value; these are issues that rank
high in relevance to our business and stakeholders as well as Walmart’s ability to make a difference.
For each priority ESG issue, we develop an ESG impact
thesis that articulates the relevance of the issue for society
Based on our most recent ESG priority assessment conducted in spring 2021, we have organized our ESG priorities into four
and Walmart’s business, reflects an understanding of
leadership themes: Opportunity, Sustainability, Community and Ethics & Integrity.
stakeholder expectations and defines our aspirations, goals
and strategies. Through such disclosures, we aim to provide
OPPORTUNITY COMMUNITY
stakeholders with an understanding of Walmart’s shared
• Good jobs and advancement for associates • Serving communities
value approach and progress.
• Equity and inclusion at Walmart and beyond • Access to safer, healthier food, products
To create change we:
and services
• Growth for suppliers, sellers and local economies
• Lead through business by embedding our ESG
• Disaster preparedness and relief
aspirations and initiatives into how we do business and
SUSTAINABILITY
work with teams across the company
ETHICS & INTEGRITY
• Climate and renewable energy leadership
• Collaborate with suppliers, NGOs, governments and
• Highest ethical and compliance standards
others to transform systems at scale
• Zero waste in operations, products and packaging
• Strong corporate governance
• Use our philanthropy to extend the societal impact of
• Regeneration of natural resources: forests, land
business initiatives
and oceans • Engagement in public policy
{ • Sustainable product supply chains • Digital citizenship
Read more: Our ESG priorities
13 white box element
• Dignity of people in supply chains • Respect for human rights
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
MANAGEMENT OF ESG and help shape the evolution of the ESG field to increase
focus on shared-value impact.
Leadership of ESG issues starts with our CEO—with oversight
from committees of our Board of Directors—and cascades • Other groups, such as the ESG Disclosure Committee,
across our enterprise. Walmart’s Chief Sustainability Officer help to guide and shape the company’s ESG strategy
(CSO) helps define the ESG agenda and provides dedicated and disclosures.
management and oversight of Walmart’s global ESG initiatives
{ Read more: ESG oversight and management
and goals. The CSO reports to our Executive Vice President
of Corporate Affairs and provides updates on our ESG agenda
and progress to the Nominating and Governance Committee of
the Walmart Board of Directors and to the Walmart executive STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
leadership team. Board committees also have oversight
Our ability to create shared value depends on direct and
responsibility for particular ESG issues. Walmart business leaders
frequent engagement with our customers, associates and
shape and deliver ESG strategies relevant to their segments
community leaders, as well as the people who supply our
and functions. For example, the Real Estate team leads
products, hold our stock and evaluate our performance.
renewable energy initiatives and the People team leads human
Stakeholder perspectives and feedback help improve the
capital initiatives.
relevance and effectiveness of the products and services we
Additional governance bodies and working teams include: offer and the initiatives we support.
Day-to-day, we engage with customers, fellow associates,
• The ESG Steering Committee, a management committee
suppliers, members of the communities where we operate
that meets at least biannually and is composed of leaders
and shareholders.
from various departments throughout the business,
including the Office of the Corporate Secretary, the
Additionally, our 2021 ESG priority assessment included
Controller’s Office, Investor Relations, Ethics and
extensive outreach to stakeholders, including customers,
Compliance, Global Audit, People, Global Public Policy and
associates, shareholders, suppliers and NGOs, to understand
Government Affairs and Sustainability.
their perspectives on which issues Walmart should prioritize.
• The ESG department, led by the Vice President, ESG,
{
Read more: Stakeholder engagement
reports to the CSO and helps Walmart business leaders
prioritize ESG issues and define impact theses. The
team helps to improve ESG strategies, performance and
disclosures; engage with investors and other stakeholders;
14
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Opportunity
Retail can be a powerful engine for inclusive
economic opportunity. We aim to advance equity and
opportunity throughout Walmart, our supply chain
and the communities we’re in to fulfill our customer
mission, strengthen our business and help people
build a better life for themselves and their families.
Issue briefs
{
Human capital: Good jobs & advancement for associates
{
Equity & inclusion at Walmart & beyond
{
Supplier opportunity
15
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
~75%
of U.S. salaried store,
club and supply chain
management started
their careers in hourly
positions
Human capital: Good jobs &
advancement for associates
As one of the world’s largest private employers, we seek to
accelerate the professional development and advancement of
our associates and help make retail a gateway to upward mobility.
Our human capital development strategy focuses on inclusion,
well-being, growth and digital enablement.
INCLUSION
We seek to make Walmart a place for everyone by creating opportunity and a sense of belonging.
Walmart offers jobs with low barriers to entry; for some it’s a first job and for others a second
chance—with access to career paths ranging from retail management to technology to health care.
We seek to enhance diversity across all levels in the organization. We are focused on equitably
hiring, developing and rewarding our associates.
16
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
WELL‑BEING
We design jobs and offer benefits that support the financial, business format (e.g., Neighborhood Markets, Sam’s Clubs,
physical and emotional well-being of our associates. Supercenters, eCommerce fulfillment centers and supply
chain warehouses). We continue to invest in higher pay for
FINANCIAL WELL‑BEING our associates, which has increased our average hourly wage
to over $16.50 as of the end of FY2022.19 As we continue to
In the United States, we offer competitive total compensation
roll out our team-based operating model in U.S. stores, we’ve
and benefits packages that provide paid time off (including
invested in higher-paying roles and increased pay for more than
sick leave to full- and part-time associates; up to 16 weeks’
1 million hourly store associates in FY2022, including raises for
leave for birth mothers who are full-time associates15); 401(k)
associates who work in the digital, stocking, front end, food and
contribution plans for full- and part-time hourly associates
consumables and general merchandise areas of our stores. We
that offer a 6% match after one year16 (the average enrollment
also offer predictable yet flexible scheduling. Associates get
was approximately 700,000 in FY2022); and stock ownership
their schedules at least two weeks in advance and can opt to
plans with a company match of up to $270 per plan year17 (in
work the same shift with their teams for at least 13 weeks. This
FY2022, 38% of our active full-time and salaried U.S. associates
model provides for consistent scheduling for up to 40 hours
participated in at least one of Walmart’s stock ownership
per week, helping associates to know what to expect in their
programs18).
paychecks. At the same time, associates can swap shifts or pick
In the U.S., our wage structure reflects varied market rates up extra shifts, giving them greater flexibility and ownership
associated with each role, our geographic footprint and our over their schedules.
Avg. total hourly
Segment Avg. hourly wage19 Peer comparison
compensation20
Grocery chains, multicategory
Walmart U.S.21 >$16.50 >$21.25
retailers, dollar stores
Sam’s Club U.S.22 >$17.25 >$22.50 Warehouse clubs
Supply Chain only (Walmart
>$23.75 >$32.00 eCommerce fulfillment
U.S. and Sam’s Club U.S.)23
17
The average hourly wage19 in the U.S. is over $17 per hour as of the end of Q1 FY2023.
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
PHYSICAL WELL‑BEING DIGITAL
In 2022, Walmart offered medical coverage starting at Walmart continues to integrate technology into our jobs to
$31.40 per pay period for full- and part-time associates when improve experiences for customers and associates alike. In 2021,
eligible. Enrolled associates have access to Walmart’s Centers we unveiled Me@Walmart, an app for U.S. store associates
of Excellence program, which provides quality care, often that helps connect them with their leader, their team and their
at zero cost, through partnerships with the Mayo Clinic and work. The app allows associates to simplify daily tasks such as
other leading health centers for serious medical conditions scheduling, clocking in, locating merchandise for customers
such as spine and cardiac surgery, cancer evaluations and joint and communicating with other associates. To support use of
replacements. Our Included Health program offers associates the app, Walmart is equipping U.S. store associates with new
enrolled in most medical plans access to expert second opinions smart phones, free of charge. We have provided more than
and help finding a high-quality doctor. 740,000 devices and plan to expand the program to most U.S.
store associates by the end of FY2023.
EMOTIONAL WELL‑BEING
Associates in the U.S. receive benefits aimed at enhancing
emotional well-being. For example, all associates and their
families, regardless of whether they are on a Walmart medical
plan, can receive support through Resources for Living,
including ten counseling sessions per type of concern at no cost
and unlimited telephone support.
18
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
WALMART’S EDUCATION
GROWTH
BENEFIT PROGRAM
We are creating a ladder of opportunity so people can build a
career at Walmart, regardless of where they start. Associates
can begin working and learning on a team, receive role-specific
Walmart Academy training and take advantage of our Live
DEGREE & CAREER DIPLOMA PROGRAMS
Better U education offering. Associates can use experiences
and knowledge acquired through work or our learning programs • Business • Health & Wellness
• Supply Chain • Skilled Trades
to continue moving up to roles with greater responsibility and
• Technology
higher pay. Walmart has a track record of making growth and
advancement a reality. Approximately 75% of our U.S. salaried
store, club and supply chain management started their careers
SHORT‑FORM PROGRAMS
in hourly positions.
• People & Business Leadership • Process Improvement
Walmart Academy helps associates learn through immersive
• Project Management • Human Resource Management
teaching that combines technology, classroom training and
• Business Analytics • Training & Staff Development
ongoing coaching on the sales floor. In FY2022, we trained
• Supply Chain / Operations • Frontline Leadership
approximately 167,000 associates through Walmart Academy,
including in-person and virtual trainings.
As of August of 2021, Walmart pays 100% of college tuition
FOUNDATIONAL PROGRAMS
and books for LBU students. Since Walmart launched
LBU in 2018, more than 72,000 Walmart associates have • English Language Learning • ACT / SAT Test Prep
enrolled in the program and more than 11,000 students • High School Completion • College Courses for
have completed LBU programs, including over • College Start (Bridge Program) HS Students
1,500 graduates who have earned an associate’s
or bachelor’s degree in an in-demand field.{ Read
more: Human capital: Good jobs & advancement
for associates
LBU ACADEMIC PARTNERS
19
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Equity & inclusion at Walmart and beyond
We believe that our business and communities are stronger and more resilient when all
our associates, suppliers, customers and community members are included, heard and
empowered. With approximately 2.3 million associates worldwide, a presence in thousands of
communities and an extensive supplier base, we believe we can use our business to accelerate
progress toward a more just and inclusive society in ways that also strengthen our company
and better serve our stakeholders.
FOSTERING A CULTURE OF from the recruiting process to mitigate bias. We also have
strategic partnerships with two Historically Black Colleges and
INCLUSION THROUGHOUT
Universities focused on strengthening pathways to careers at
WALMART
Walmart and support early career candidates across a broad
We seek a workplace culture where associates at all levels portfolio of schools, the majority of which are minority-serving
are—and feel—included. We have set governance structures, institutions. In FY2022, 56% of new hires in the United States
incentives and reporting practices to guide this culture and were people of color and 51% were women.24
drive accountability. Through training and resources, we strive
Walmart invests in associate development as a key strategy
to develop our associates to be inclusive leaders and seek to
to create a more diverse, inclusive team at every level of our
enhance belonging by listening to our associates and facilitating
company. For example, we offer focused development programs,
engagement in associate groups.
such as Gateways, a two-year professional development program
that aims to accelerate a pipeline of diverse leadership talent
HIRING AND DEVELOPMENT
and enable business growth. We also believe our Live Better U
Our approach to hiring focuses on enhancing diversity and program can help address disparities in access to education and
inclusion throughout the talent pipeline. For example, we guide drive increased talent attraction, while creating upward mobility
hiring managers and recruiters to interview diverse candidate for associates and scaling our internal talent pipelines. Fifty
slates, assemble diverse interview panels and remove photos percent of active LBU students identify as people of color.
20
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
PAY EQUITY
Representation at Walmart—FY2022 U.S.25
Our strategy to grow diverse talent pipelines includes rewarding
our associates equitably. Our latest pay analysis in Canada and the
United States confirms that—taking into account relevant factors
40% 46%
such as position, tenure and location—Walmart pays associates
equitably regardless of race, ethnicity or gender. We conduct People of
U.S. total management U.S. hourly-to-hourly
analyses of pay and compensation practices in consultation with Color
promotions promotions24
49%
expert third-party firms following industry-leading standards.
Through pay and policy adjustments, we correct for unintended U.S. associates
pay differences and where appropriate adjust for market
competitiveness as part of our annual and ongoing reviews. We
39% 27%
continue to review our processes and analyses beyond the U.S.
and Canada so that we can consistently review and report on our U.S. management U.S. officers
equitable pay and practices globally.
ADVANCING EQUITY IN SOCIETY
We aim to advance diversity, equity and inclusion in society,
45% 54%
helping to tackle drivers of systemic disparities through
complementary business initiatives and philanthropic
Women
U.S. total management U.S. hourly-to-hourly
investments. We are focusing our efforts on the U.S. criminal
promotions promotions
justice, education, finance and health systems. Our Shared 53%
Value Networks (SVNs) are teams of associates who identify the
U.S. associates
natural overlaps between Walmart’s business capabilities and
opportunities to advance racial equity within our four systems
of focus. To extend the impact of the SVNs, Walmart and the 44% 34%
Walmart Foundation committed $100 million over five years to
U.S. management U.S. officers
create the Walmart.org Center for Racial Equity. The Center
has invested $35 million as of January 2022 to address racial
inequities in these four systems.
21
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Walmart’s Shared Value Networks and the Walmart.org Center for Racial Equity pursue
initiatives aimed at advancing racial equity in four societal systems. Examples include:
System Business (Shared Value Networks) Philanthropy (Center for Racial Equity)
Criminal Second Chance Hiring: Partnering with The Last Mile to Unlock Potential: Supporting a hiring program led by the
Justice provide technical training for incarcerated individuals, Responsible Business Initiative for Justice and Persevere,
followed by wraparound services and job placement at through which a network of community organizations and
Walmart once released from incarceration. employers provide jobs and wraparound services for youth
with incarcerated parents, foster youth, youth involved
in the justice system and young people impacted by
human trafficking.
Education Chicago Community Academy: Hosting classes for 1890 Universities Foundation: Helping students build
community members in the Chatham neighborhood careers in fields such as agriculture, healthcare and
on topics such as entrepreneurship, resume writing, technology by supporting technical assistance and
Accessibility Center
interviewing and personal finance, while providing our innovation across 19 1890 land-grant universities, including
associates an opportunity to grow and develop the skills the launch of the Center of Excellence for Nutrition,
of Excellence
they need to build careers at Walmart and beyond. Health, Wellness and Quality of Life.
Finance Financial Literacy: Partnering with Operation Hope to Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC):
launch a national initiative aiming to embed financial literacy Supporting WBENC’s Women of Color Outreach and
In FY2022, Walmart announced the formation of the
into American culture and reach millions of youth and Development Programs, which provide education,
Accessibility Center of Excellence (ACE). The ACE
working adults to enable greater financial success. resources and access to peer and mentor networks for
develops and implements strategies aimed at making
businesses owned by women of color to overcome barriers
Walmart the most inclusive retailer and employer for
to their growth.
people with disabilities. The mission of the ACE is to
define, design and deliver accessible experiences at scale
Health Healthier food and habits: Working with community American Heart Association Bernard J. Tyson Fund:
by adopting a culture of awareness and action around
organizations to design, test and evaluate Walmart food Supporting the Fund’s work with community-based
accessibility, building the necessary infrastructure,
and nutrition offerings to improve access to healthier organizations and entrepreneurs in Atlanta and Chicago
creating leadership champions and onboarding teams to
food options for Black and African American communities working to increase access to affordable and healthy food
drive accessibility at scale.
experiencing food insecurity. in communities of color.
22
{
Read more: Equity & inclusion at Walmart & beyond
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Supplier opportunity
Through sourcing, Walmart aims not only to delight our customers but also to provide
opportunities for economic growth and development for the people who work throughout
our supply chains, including our suppliers, the people they employ and their communities.
As part of our local and global sourcing programs, we pursue several initiatives focused on
building a more inclusive, diverse supplier base and contributing to local economies. Our
efforts include:
America at Work: In FY2013, we committed to invest an Make in India: Walmart’s Vriddhi Supplier Development
incremental $250 billion over ten years in products that support Program aims to prepare 50,000 of India’s micro-, small- and
the creation of American jobs. As of the end of FY2022, we medium-sized suppliers to participate in global supply chains.
have sourced an incremental $196 billion. In March 2021, we Additionally, we announced an ambition to triple our exports
announced a new ten-year commitment to invest an incremental from India to $10 billion each year by 2027.
$350 billion in products made, grown or assembled in the United
Supplier inclusion: Walmart uses its sourcing strategies to foster
States. The additional $350 billion commitment has the potential
equity and inclusion of underrepresented and disadvantaged
>$13.3 billion to support an estimated 750,000 new jobs.27 As of the end of
groups while enhancing our product offering. In FY2022,
FY2022 we have increased U.S. purchases by $12 billion toward
Walmart’s U.S. businesses spent over $13.3 billion in goods and
in goods and services
this new goal.
services sourced from approximately 2,600 diverse suppliers.
sourced from diverse
American Lighthouses: In 2021 we introduced American In 2021, we partnered with C2FO to expand our early payment
suppliers26 for Walmart’s
Lighthouses, aimed at identifying and overcoming barriers program to help diverse suppliers28 increase their cash flow by
U.S. businesses
to U.S. manufacturing by fostering collaboration among accelerating their receipt of invoice payments from Walmart;
manufacturers, NGOs, academia, government and local this gives these suppliers the ability to receive paid invoices
economic development groups. We are beginning by focusing within 48 hours of submission.
on two supply chains—textiles and pharma/medical—and
$196 billion
{
Read more: Supplier opportunity
plan to expand the program to plastics, food processing and
incremental purchases motors/metals.
{
Read more: People in supply chains
in products supporting
American jobs since 2013
23
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Committed to help protect,
more sustainably manage or
restore
Sustainability
50M 1M
acres sq miles
of land of ocean
by 2030
Walmart seeks to transform our business and product
supply chains to be regenerative. In the following pages,
we describe our approach to addressing issues and
opportunities related to climate change, nature, waste
and people working in product supply chains.
Issue briefs
{
Product supply chain sustainability
{
Climate change
{
Regeneration of natural resources: Forests, land, oceans
{
Waste: Circular economy
{
People in supply chains
24
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Example certified commodities29
Product supply chain sustainability
% certified or sustainably
Commodity
sourced in FY2022
As a multicategory retailer operating in multiple countries, Walmart engages suppliers,
Walmart U.S.: ~99%
customers and NGOs in initiatives to improve the sustainability of product supply chains, Sam’s Club U.S.: ~99%
Fresh & frozen
seafood30
Walmart Mexico: 82%
including those related to the Walmart assortment. Our sustainability strategies include:
Walmart Central America: 76%
• Setting standards and requirements for products, including • Helping Walmart customers make informed choices through
Walmart U.S.: 70%
Tuna31
through policies, position statements and certification labeling and cause campaigns
Sam’s Club U.S.: 50%
goals. For example, our Forests Policy sets out our approach
• Advocating for public policies that align with sustainable
to tackling deforestation and approach to higher-impact Walmart U.S.: 100%
supply chain priorities, including climate policy aligned with
Coffee32
categories of palm oil, pulp and paper, beef and soy.
Sam’s Club U.S.: 97%
our Statement on Climate Policy
• Engaging Walmart suppliers to spark action, share best
• Accelerating systems change beyond Walmart through Walmart U.S.: 99%
practices and tools and encourage measurement and Bananas33
philanthropic investments, including FY2022 investments
Sam’s Club U.S.: 99%
disclosure, including through Project Gigaton™
to foster the development of credible standards to validate
• Leading and contributing to industry consortia and landscape initiatives and the development of high-potential Walmart U.S.: 88%
Pineapples34
initiatives to accelerate collective action beyond Walmart jurisdictional and place-based initiatives
Sam’s Club U.S.: 82%
on priority sustainability issues, including the Consumer
{
Read more: Product supply chain sustainability
Walmart Inc.: 90% certified
Goods Forum, Seafood Task Force, Midwest Row Crop
Palm oil35
segregated or mass balance
Collaborative and Sustainable Apparel Coalition
Pulp & paper36 Walmart Inc.: 92%
25
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Consumables Food Apparel and home Entertainment and hardlines
tnemevorpmI
seitiroirP
GHG emissions, packaging & product waste, deforestation & conversion, forced labor & worker safety
Sustainable chemistry Biodiversity Biodiversity
Soil health, water management & chemical management Soil health, water management & chemical management
Overfishing & IUU fishing
Animal welfare
Food Waste
sevitaitinI
dna
seigetartS
Product supply chain sustainability: Improvement priorities and strategies by product category*
Climate Engage suppliers on energy, nature, waste, packaging, transportation, product use & design through Project GigatonTM
Provide suppliers with tools & resources
Lead consortia and advocate for public policy aligned with Paris Climate Agreement
Waste Transition private brand packaging for recyclability & post-consumer content
Engage suppliers through Project GigatonTM and provide playbooks & tools
Lead consortia and advocate for public policy to promote circularity
Engage customers on recycling and circularity
Support philanthropic efforts in recycling infrastructure, materials innovation & design, consumer behavior
Engage suppliers and lead consortia on food waste Increase recycled fiber in products Trade-in & refurbishment program
Support philanthropic efforts in food waste prevention & recovery Promote reuse & upcycling
Nature Set sourcing policies and position statements, including certification requirements
Engage suppliers through Project GigatonTM, joint sustainability planning, collective action and access to tools & resources
Advocate for public policy to advance nature-related goals
Support conservation and restoration and investments in traceability/transparency tools through philanthropy
Source RSPO-certified palm oil Host sustainable commodity summits: beef, row crops, tuna Source more sustainable cotton & cellulosic fibers Source certified deforestation-free pulp & paper
Encourage place-based sourcing projects Source from suppliers using Higg FEM Walmart U.S. Pollinator Health Position
Address animal welfare with suppliers
Walmart U.S. Pollinator Health Position
Promote responsible sourcing through standards, engagement, training, & monitoring
Respect for
human rights Collaborate with suppliers & NGOs to promote responsible recruitment principles & reporting
Lead consortia to promote responsible recruitment, worker safety, & enhanced ethical standards
Philanthropically support demand for responsible labor, enhancement of certifications, improved transparency, & place-based initiatives
Promote supplier endorsement of Ethical Charter Leverage Nirapon & LABS to improve factory safety Promote alignment with RBA Code of Conduct
Engage produce & seafood suppliers to set goals & report on responsible Engage ICT suppliers to set goals & report on
recruitment responsible recruitment
Support U.S. manufacturing through incremental spend
Inclusive
economic Promote supplier diversity through sourcing and financing
opportunity Enhance supplier capacity and market access through sourcing & philanthropy
Safer, healthier Reduce priority chemicals in formulated consumables Enhance food safety through standards, audits, training, blockchain Enhance product safety through standards, testing, training and collaboration
26
products Enhance product safety through standards, testing, training and Promote nutrition and choice through reformulation, labeling, education,
expanded assortment
collaboration
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Annual GHG emissions
20
15
10
5
0
CY2015 CY2016 CY2017 CY2018 CY2019 CY2020
Scope 1 Scope 2
e₂OC
)TMM(
snot
cirtem
noilliM
Climate change
Walmart aims to galvanize collective climate action across the retail and consumer
goods sector through our operational emissions reduction initiatives, supplier
engagement, innovation in product supply chain practices, advocacy and
philanthropy, while taking steps to strengthen the resilience of our business against
the effects of climate change.
GOVERNANCE and adaptation strategies. Climate risk is also incorporated
into the company’s Enterprise Risk Management process.
The Walmart corporate sustainability team leads the
Walmart’s executive leadership team reviews Walmart’s
development of the company’s climate strategy, working
climate strategy at least annually. The Nominating and
with a team including finance, real estate, operations,
Governance Committee of the Walmart Board of Directors
merchandising, strategy and public policy. Walmart
oversees that strategy.
periodically conducts a scenario-based climate risk
assessment, which informs Walmart’s climate mitigation
37 Carbon intensity38
$600,000
6.08
6.71 40
6.67 41.29 40.04
6.15 37.89 $559,151
6.85
7.24
34.42
$550,000
32.86
30
13.83 $514,405 29.38
12.74
12.29
$523,964
11.37
$500,000 10.37 20 $482,130
$500,343
9.19
$485,873
$450,000
10
0 $400,000
FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021
27
Carbon intensity Total annual revenue [$M]
(Scope 1 and 2 MT
CO2e / $M revenue)
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Project GigatonTM – Key Highlights40
MITIGATION
Walmart has committed to science-based targets (SBTs) for
• Part of Walmart’s approved science-based target and
emissions reduction—including achieving a 35% reduction in
>2,500
aligned with the 2° warming scenario
absolute scopes 1 & 2 emissions by 2025 and a 65% reduction
by 2030 (vs. 2015 base year)—on the way to achieving zero
• Achieving the target would be equivalent to at least a 30% suppliers reporting
emissions in our operations by 2040. We are also committed
reduction of the estimated scope 3 footprint Walmart
in 2021
to engaging suppliers through Project Gigaton™, an ambitious
used as the basis for the initiative
effort to reduce or avoid one billion metric tons (a gigaton) of
• Target and accounting methodology developed in
GHG emissions in the global value chain by 2030.
partnership with experts including CDP, Environmental
We achieved a 17.5% reduction in combined scopes 1 and
Defense Fund (EDF) and the World Wildlife Fund (WWF)
2 emissions between our 2015 calendar year baseline and
Reporting from
• Intended to get immediate traction with suppliers on
2020.39 While scope 2 emissions in 2020 declined by 11% over
actions to reduce and avoid emissions, with 2030 serving suppliers representing
2019, 2020 scope 1 emissions increased by approximately 6%
as an interim milestone toward the Paris Agreement’s
due primarily to increases in onsite refrigerant and transport >70%
2050 date
fuel emissions. To continue our progress, we are focused on
of U.S. product
renewable energy procurement, energy efficiency, refrigeration,
• Serves as a platform to engage and encourage our
net sales
transportation and stationary fuels.
suppliers to take action in arenas key to net-zero supply
chains: energy, nature, waste, packaging, transportation
and product use & design
• Annual opportunity for suppliers to report on specific
actions taken that are translated via calculators into
metric tons of CO e. Calculators created in collaboration
2 >574 MMT
with WWF and EDF
cumulative emissions
• Suppliers determine the scope of their efforts to report—
reduced or avoided
e.g., total company actions or Walmart’s proportional
(2017 through 2021)
share. Select supplier submissions reviewed by WWF and
EDF as part of the data review
28
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
ADAPTATION
Our climate strategy includes adapting our operations to
enhance resilience in the face of climate risk. Strategies include
preparing our facilities and associates for weather-related
disasters, taking steps to enhance surety of supply in the face
of near-term disasters and disruptions and longer-term climate
change and accounting for transition risk in business planning.
ADVOCACY
Walmart has a Board-adopted climate policy and advocates for
1.5° Celsius-aligned, science-based national and international
climate policies that are consistent with achieving net-zero
emissions by 2050 and fairly and equitably addressing the
needs of all stakeholders. Walmart’s advocacy activities in
FY2022 included:
• Direct engagement of lawmakers, including to support the
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act and the climate
provisions of Build Back Better.
• Engaging the public to make the case for climate action,
including through blogs, op-eds, articles and forums.
• Working with trade associations and consortia to share our
point of view on climate action and influence their positions
and actions.
• Supporting other coalitions and initiatives advocating for
an enabling policy environment, including co-leading the
Retail Race to Zero campaign and representing the coalition
at COP26.
29
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Waste: Circular
economy
We aim to break the link between
consumption and waste as part of a
movement toward a more circular
economy, aspiring to achieve zero
waste41 to landfill or incineration
in our operations as we work with
suppliers, customers and communities
to accelerate the adoption of circular
packaging and products.
Achieving zero operational waste in Canada, Mexico and the
Highlights
United States by 2025: We diverted 78% of waste42 globally
in 2021. Our efforts include addressing secondary packaging,
unsold food and general merchandise, automotive waste
and unused assets. We are recycling corrugated cardboard, Percentage of waste42 diverted from >7% 58% 827 million
utilizing reusable packaging containers, recycling rigid plastics landfill and incineration:
Global private operational food
and plastic film, refurbishing fixtures, improving sell-through • Global: 78% • Mexico: 72% Global private-
brand packaging waste diverted
of food, donating food to food banks and other charities • United States: 81% • Goal: 90% by 2025 brand plastic
estimated to be from waste stream
and converting food that is no longer edible to animal feed, • Canada: 89% packaging made
recyclable, reusable through composting,
compost or energy. from post-consumer
Percentage of sales with
or industrially animal feed,
recycled content.44
Reducing food waste in the value chain: We have set a 50% How2Recycle label:
compostable.45 anaerobic digestion
Goal: 17% by 2025
food waste reduction goal (by 2030 vs. a 2016 baseline); as
• Walmart U.S.: 80%
Goal: 100% by 2025 and biochemical
of the end of 2021, we had achieved an 18% reduction.46 We
• Sam’s Club U.S.: 84%
processing.
engage suppliers through Project Gigaton™, the Champions • Goal: 100% by 202243
30
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
12.3 10x20x30 initiative and the Consumer Goods Forum’s Date Addressing plastic bags: Walmart is undertaking multiple efforts
Labeling Call to Action and Food Waste Coalition of Action. to reduce single-use plastic bag material, which we estimate
accounts for approximately 15% of our global plastic packaging
Optimizing packaging and using labeling to help customers
footprint. We have eliminated single-use plastic bags in Canada
reduce, reuse and recycle: We joined the U.S. and Canada
and parts of Mexico, as well as several states (Connecticut,
Plastics Pact as part of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s
Maine, New York and Vermont). Since 2020, we have been a
initiative to create a circular economy for plastics. In 2021, 58%
partner in Closed Loop Partners’ Beyond the Bag effort, which
of our private brand packaging was recyclable, reusable or
aims to identify scalable alternatives to single-use plastic bags.
industrially compostable, up from 54% the prior year, toward
In 2021, the consortium welcomed winners of the Beyond
our goal of 100% by 2030.47 In 2021, 7% of our private brand
the Bag Challenge into a six-month accelerator that pilots
packaging was made of post-consumer recycled content,
innovative solutions.
down from 11% the year prior,48 while our virgin plastic volume
increased by 3%, a headwind against a new goal we announced Engaging customers: We set a goal to have the How2Recycle
to reduce our private brand packaging 15% by 2025 (vs. a label on 100% of Walmart U.S. private-brand food and
2020 baseline). The decreased post-consumer recycled content consumable products by 2022. As of our 2021 reporting cycle,
and the increase in virgin plastic are largely attributable to 80% and 84% of Walmart U.S. and Sam’s Club U.S., private-brand
global shortages of post-consumer recycled content, which food/consumables supplier-reported sales respectively came
reduced availability and increased prices substantially. We are from items carrying the How2Recycle label.49 We also offer
focused on helping our suppliers secure additional supplies our customers the opportunity to recycle, taking in >1.9 million
of post-consumer recycled content and taking other steps, pounds of recyclable materials—including plastic bags and film—
including overall packaging reductions, to get back on track. from customers in 2021. Additionally, we offer ecoATM kiosks
In collaboration with the Association of Plastic Recyclers, to make it simple and convenient for consumers to sell back
we developed the Walmart Recycling Playbook, hosted a used smart devices; in FY2022, we collected 3.4 million devices
2021 Sustainable Packaging Innovation Summit and supported for reuse and recycling through ecoATM machines. Through
the development of Plastic IQ, a scenario-modeling tool, used philanthropy, we support programs to expand the availability and
by over 170 companies that represent approximately 20% of all understanding of how to recycle in the U.S.
plastic packaging generated in the U.S.
{
Read more: Waste: Circular economy
31
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Regeneration of natural resources:
Forests, land, oceans
Many of the products we sell are derived from or depend on nature. We aspire to operate
our business in a way that regenerates natural resources, with a goal to help to conserve,
restore, or more sustainably manage at least 50 million acres of land and 1 million square
>$14 million
miles of ocean by 2030. Our nature initiatives focus on grasslands, forests and seascapes that
invested by Walmart and
have high value for nature, relate to our product sourcing footprint and afford opportunities
the Walmart Foundation
for Walmart, our suppliers, or NGO collaborators to influence change.
to help preserve
irreplaceable landscapes
in FY2021 & FY2022
SETTING PRIORITIES We encourage our suppliers to source certain commodities—
including palm oil and seafood—in accordance with certifications
In 2020, we identified critical landscapes and seascapes that
that support our nature-related goals.
have high value for nature, relate to our product sourcing
footprint and afford opportunities for Walmart, our suppliers, We encourage suppliers to pursue nature initiatives and report
or NGO collaborators to influence change. Those areas are on their progress, including through Project Gigaton™’s Nature
grasslands, forests and oceans. pillar. As of the end of FY2022, more than 550 suppliers were
reporting progress through the Nature pillar (for example, our
SUSTAINABLE SOURCING fresh beef suppliers report implementing sustainable grazing
management practices on over half a million acres).
As a retailer, we believe product sourcing can play a major role
in achieving our nature goals. We set sourcing specifications We also support supplier efforts to source more sustainably
and aspirations through policies and position statements (for by providing resources and knowledge-sharing opportunities.
example, Forests Policy, Seafood Policy, Sustainable Row Crop Our Sustainability Hub houses guidance and playbooks and
Position Statement and Walmart U.S. Pollinator Health Position). connects suppliers to place-based projects. Since 2020 we have
32
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
~99%
Walmart U.S. and
Sam’s Club U.S. fresh
also hosted summits on key topics like tuna, beef and row crops INVESTING IN PLACE‑BASED
and frozen, wild-caught
where Walmart merchants, suppliers and stakeholders discuss
INITIATIVES and farmed, seafood
strategies, aspirations, achievements and challenges.
sustainably sourced30
We support the development of place-based and jurisdictional
{
Read more: Product supply chain sustainability
initiatives, which aim to create shared value for producers,
~90%
suppliers and communities across a landscape or seascape
through activities that restore and rebuild the natural resources
palm oil in private
SUPPORTING CONSERVATION
that communities depend on and that produce the goods we
brand products
AND RESTORATION sell. For example, in FY2022, we partnered with the Nature
RSPO-certified
Conservancy and the government of the Republic of the
We support conservation and restoration initiatives, primarily
sustainable35
Marshall Islands (RMI) to more sustainably source tuna for our
through philanthropy. For example, over the past 17 years, the
private brand and support communities throughout RMI.
Walmart Acres for America program (in partnership with the
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation) has helped protect more
ADVOCATING FOR AND
than 1.8 million acres across 41 states, the District of Columbia
and Puerto Rico—an area larger than Everglades National Park. INVESTING IN ENABLERS
And in November 2021, Walmart.org joined the LEAF Coalition,
We leverage our voice, convening power and strategic
a new public-private initiative designed to accelerate climate
philanthropy to advocate for an enabling environment that
action by providing results-based finance to national and sub-
supports our nature objectives. Examples in FY2022 include
national jurisdictions committed to protecting and restoring
submitting a letter of support to the U.S. Senate regarding the
their tropical forests.
passage of the Growing Climate Solutions Act, engaging with
Business for Nature and supporting the development of new
collaborative technologies.
{
Read more: Regeneration of natural resources:
Forests, land, oceans
33
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
People in supply chains
>$67 million We aim to source responsibly while acting as a catalyst to improve the well-being of people
working in consumer product supply chains. We pursue these goals through our responsible
Walmart Foundation
grants to support sourcing programs, creating economic opportunity for people in supply chains and by
smallholder farmers
collaborating to address systemic risks to workers.
(since 2017)
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING South Africa, Walmart teams work to develop small producers
as suppliers and to help them reach Walmart’s customers. In the
Our Responsible Sourcing program sets expectations for
U.S., our annual Open Call event allows hundreds of small- and
product suppliers in alignment with our Human Rights
medium-sized business owners from across the country to pitch
Statement, monitors supplier performance against those
products made, grown or assembled in the U.S. to our Walmart
expectations and works through our business to continuously
U.S. and Sam’s Club U.S. merchants.
improve our product supply chains. In FY2022, we assessed
approximately 14,000 third-party audits of facilities producing Additionally, the Walmart Foundation helps promote market
products for Walmart and managed more than 700 cases access for small producers. Since 2017, the Foundation has
involving allegations of supply chain misconduct. In 2021, we awarded grants of more than $67 million that are expected
revised and reissued our Standards for Suppliers and issued new to benefit more than 730,000 smallholders (44% of whom
Responsible Sourcing and Forced Labor Prevention policies. are women) in Central America, India and Mexico. The grants
provide access to training and capacity development along
CREATING ECONOMIC
with market linkages for smallholders in Farmer Producer
OPPORTUNITY FOR PEOPLE IN
Organizations (FPOs). As part of these efforts, the Walmart
SUPPLY CHAINS
Foundation committed $25 million over five years to strengthen
smallholders in FPOs in India. The Foundation has met this
Growing, making and transporting products can significantly
commitment through grants totaling more than $29 million,
benefit local economies and provide economic opportunity for
providing support for over 590,000 smallholder farmers, 48% of
people who work in product supply chains.
whom are women.
For example, 92% of merchandise sold in Mexico is sourced in
the country while 83% of merchandise sold in Central America is
sourced from the region. In these markets as well as in India and
34
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
COLLABORATING TO ADDRESS FORCED LABOR WORKER SAFETY
SYSTEMIC RISKS TO WORKER
Walmart has prioritized working with stakeholders to combat Building on our experiences as a founding member of the
WELL‑BEING forced labor and other exploitative practices in global supply Alliance for Bangladesh Worker Safety, Walmart is a founding
chains, including helping to make responsible recruitment the member of the Life and Building Safety initiative (LABS), an
Systemic issues such as forced labor, unsafe working conditions
standard business practice for employers throughout global initiative of European and American brands to set international
and gender inequity require collective action to bring about
supply chains. best practices for factory safety in the apparel and footwear
significant, positive and lasting protection of worker well-being.
industries. LABS works with engineering companies to develop
Walmart and the Walmart Foundation collaborate with suppliers, To advance responsible recruitment across our supply chain,
country-specific factory safety standards and commissions
NGOs, experts and others to address root causes of these we launched a Supplier Responsible Recruitment initiative
fire, electrical and structural audits of factories. Factories
issues, foster solutions and accelerate adoption at scale. We have at the March 2022 Walmart Supplier Growth Forum. The
develop supervised corrective action plans to remediate
committed to working with others to address risks to the dignity initiative invites suppliers (starting with seafood and produce)
problems and are assessed on their implementation of those
of workers in a minimum of 10 retail supply chains by 2025, to adopt and report on practices related to recruiting, worker
plans. LABS has been active in India and Vietnam since 2019,
focusing on the following supply chains to date: empowerment and transparency that are believed by experts to
covering over 572,000 workers. The program expanded to
facilitate responsible recruitment.
• Apparel in Bangladesh Cambodia in May 2022 and is expected to cover approximately
We also promote the adoption of best practices in certain 206,000 additional workers.
• Produce in Mexico and the U.S.
category supply chains. For example, as of the end of FY2022,
{
Read more: People in supply chains
• Shrimp in Thailand 69% of Walmart U.S. fresh produce and floral net sales came
from suppliers who have endorsed the Ethical Charter on
{
• Tuna in Thailand Read more: Human rights
Responsible Labor Practices (we aim for 100% by the end of
• Electronics sourced for the U.S. retail market calendar 2022). In FY2022, 87% of Walmart U.S. information, {
Read more: Supplier opportunity
communication and technology net sales were from suppliers
who implemented the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)
Code of Conduct.
To accelerate system-wide change, the Walmart Foundation
has awarded over $45 million in grants since FY2016 to help
strengthen worker dignity by promoting the responsible
recruitment of workers and fair and responsible labor practices
in global supply chains.
35
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Community >356K
hours volunteered for
local causes by…
As an omni-channel retailer with stores in
>18K
thousands of communities around the world,
U.S. associates through
we seek to help those communities thrive and
the Volunteerism Always
become more resilient. Pays program
Issue briefs
{
Serving communities
{
Safer, healthier food & other products
{
Disaster preparedness & response
36
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Serving communities
We create value for the communities we operate in by
providing access to affordable products and services and by
contributing to economic vitality and community resilience.
ACCESS TO AFFORDABLE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
Approximately 90% of American households live within 10 miles of Walmart stores and
clubs and our eCommerce capabilities allow us to reach many more. With our omni-channel
model, we provide affordable access to essential products and services, including pharmacy,
health and wellness and financial services.
OUR COVID‑19 RESPONSE IN FY2022
Testing: Walmart worked closely with federal and state governments, labs and insurance
companies to expand COVID-19 testing, including standing up free community testing sites and
testing at drive-up pharmacy windows. As of January 2022, we supported more than 800 testing
sites across the country and have tested hundreds of thousands of people.
Vaccinations: Walmart has administered millions of vaccines across the United States, with 80%
being delivered in medically underserved communities as classified by the Health Resources and
Services Administration. A report by the Network Contagion Research Institute concluded that
Walmart outperformed the aggregate as a vaccine distribution network and was able to reach
key areas of vaccine-reluctant populations. We have offered vaccinations in all Walmart and
Sam’s Club pharmacies, with more than 5,100 retail locations across the United States.
37
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
CONTRIBUTING TO STRENGTHENING
ECONOMIC VITALITY COMMUNITY RESILIENCE
Our business supports the economic strength of We invest in communities through local giving, encouraging
communities by: volunteerism and supporting programs to strengthen
community cohesion. For example, in FY2022:
• Providing quality jobs: Walmart jobs provide competitive
pay, benefits, training and skill-building and mobility to • Walmart and Sam’s Club facilities in the U.S. gave
approximately 2.3 million associates around the world. more than $44 million to nonprofit organizations in
their local communities.51
• Investing in local suppliers: According to data from
our suppliers, in FY2022, nearly two-thirds of Walmart • More than 18,000 U.S. associates volunteered more
U.S.’s total product spend was on items made, grown or than 356,000 hours at local organizations, which
assembled in the United States, and 92% of merchandise Walmart further supported with cash donations of
sold in Mexico was sourced there. more than $3.1 million.
• Contributing to tax revenue: In FY2022, Walmart paid • The Walmart Foundation contributed funds towards
more than $5.9 billion in corporate income-based taxes community cohesion projects, including $1 million
worldwide. These tax dollars provide revenue to fund to Welcoming America to train community leaders
services, projects and programs such as fire, police, on strategies to increase belonging and to help
schools, libraries and community health services. communities develop inclusive policies and practices
that enable all residents to thrive and contribute fully.
{
Read more: Serving communities
{
Read more: Safer, healthier food & other products
{
Read more: Disaster preparedness & response
38
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Safer, healthier food and other products
Providing safer, healthier and more affordable food and other HEALTHIER FOOD OPTIONS SUSTAINABLE CHEMISTRY
products is central to our mission to help people save money
In 2018, we set a goal of reducing by 10% our footprint55 of
Our Great For You icon—which has scored in the top tier
and live better. In addition to providing food access in thousands
priority chemicals in formulated consumables products sold in
of nutritional standards—helps customers build healthier
of communities around the world, we work to strengthen
Walmart U.S. and Sam’s Club U.S.56 We asked suppliers to reduce
diets. As of May 2022, approximately 30% of items in fresh
policies, standards and practices to sustain the safety and quality
priority chemicals by accelerating reformulations and certifying
produce and food items across the Great Value, Marketside
of our assortment. We also engage our customers and work with
products. As of 2020, we had achieved a 17% reduction against
and Parent’s Choice private brands qualify for the Great for
others on industry-wide efforts in consumer education, food
our 2017 baseline. In FY2023, we plan to update our policy and
You icon.53 In 2021 we began work to update the standard to
and product safety and access to the food and products people
our program commitment.
match 2020-2025 Dietary Guidelines for Americans and aim
want and need.
to benchmark our assortment against the updated standard.
{
Read more: Safer, healthier food & other products
FOOD ACCESS In FY2022, we launched our Built for Better program on
Walmart.com, which helps customers identify products that
Beyond bringing a food assortment to thousands of
are made with the well-being of people and the planet in mind.
communities through our stores and clubs, we also offer grocery
The Built for Better—For You icon helps customers identify
pickup at approximately 5,200 Walmart U.S. stores and Sam’s
items focused on their family’s well-being, from more nutritious
Clubs. In FY2022, over 55% of our Walmart U.S. net sales were
options (like Great for You) to those made without materials or
from grocery items and over 60% of our Sam’s Club net sales
ingredients they may not want.
were from grocery and consumables.
In addition, our stores, clubs and distribution centers in the U.S.
FOOD SAFETY
donated more than 696 million pounds of food52 to Feeding
Walmart maintains a global food safety compliance program
America food banks in FY2022. Since 2006, our stores, clubs
to assist Walmart associates and suppliers in meeting our
and distribution centers have donated more than 7 billion
expectations for safety. Our Global Food Safety Compliance
pounds of food. Currently, SNAP benefits can be used for
team assesses food safety risks, sets standards, implements
grocery pickup and delivery orders in 49 states as well as on
and trains associates on the required controls and monitors
Walmart.com.
the effectiveness of the program. In FY2022 we trained over
980,00054 associates around the globe on at least one food
safety course.
39
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Disaster preparedness & response
In any given year, Walmart’s stores, clubs and the communities that surround them may face
risks related to disease outbreaks and pandemics, breakdown of infrastructure, violence and
extreme weather. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)57 reports
that the United States experienced 20 separate billion-dollar weather and climate disasters
in 2021, one of the most catastrophic years on record. We mitigate the impact of disasters
>$24 million
with a focus on associate safety and well-being and recovery of business operations to serve
donated globally toward
communities in need. Efforts in 2021 included:
disaster recovery and
preparedness
• We powered stores, clubs and distribution centers for • Walmart activated customer campaigns, including a
more than 10,000 hours using mobile generators while $5 million match program, to support the American
grid electricity was unavailable in 2021. Generator power Red Cross’s response to Hurricane Ida and other natural
allowed us to keep supply chain, fuel, health & wellness disasters in 2021.
and other critical functions operating to support impacted
• The Walmart Foundation made a $3 million investment
communities.
in the Gulf region to build capacity among community-
• When Hurricane Ida left widespread power outages, based organizations and municipal governments to help
our stores and parking lots served as hubs for resources vulnerable communities prepare for and mitigate the impact
including medications, charging stations and laundry of disasters.
facilities. We donated water and food, including
• Walmart and the Walmart Foundation continued to support
60 truckloads of produce, deli and meat, to Feeding
global efforts to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. Walmart
America food banks in the area. Additionally, the Walmart
donated more than 3,000 oxygen concentrators and
Foundation provided over $4.3 million in grants to nonprofit
20 oxygen-generating plants to the COVID-19 response in
organizations that provided hot meals, emergency relief and
India. The Walmart Foundation also donated approximately
help with clean-up efforts.
$2 million to two NGOs responding in India.
{
40 Read more: Disaster preparedness & response
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Ethics &
Integrity
Walmart strives to make trust a competitive
advantage; integrity builds trust in our
business and modeling the highest
standards of ethics and compliance helps us
>2 million
create and maintain a culture of integrity.
associates
completed ethics
training in FY2022
Issue briefs
{
Ethics & compliance
{
Corporate governance
{
Engagement in public policy
{
Digital citizenship: Ethical use of data &
responsible use of technology
{
Human rights
41
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
11
>1,000 29
languages available on
associates worldwide in roles languages spoken
Ethics &
the globally-accessible
dedicated to ethics, compliance on the 24/7 Walmart
ethics website
and corporate governance ethics helpline
compliance
management
At every level of our company, we work to
New Code of
create a culture that inspires trust among
our associates, with our customers and in Conduct in 2021 >77,400
the communities we serve. We do this by
establishing ethics and compliance programs, focused on acting with associates completed
setting standards and controls, training integrity to build trust in each anti-corruption training
associates and responding to issues. Our
other and with our customers,
standards include our Code of Conduct,
members and stakeholders
which lays out our values, principles and the
behaviors we expect of associates and our
Standards for Suppliers, which describes our
supplier expectations.
{
Read more: Ethics & compliance
42
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Corporate governance
Strong corporate governance starts with setting the structures and incentives to help the
company thrive in the long term and flows through to everyday practices.
BOARD AND MANAGEMENT ESG OVERSIGHT
OVERSIGHT OF STRATEGY
While management is responsible for developing ESG
AND RISK strategies, the Board oversees the overall ESG strategy and
certain priority issues. Examples include:
Our approach to corporate governance includes:
• Walmart’s Chief Sustainability Officer provides updates
• Maintaining a majority independent Board with diverse
on the ESG agenda and progress to the Nominating
backgrounds and relevant experiences and skills
and Governance Committee (NGC). In 2021, the NGC
• Effective Board and management oversight of strategy, discussed Walmart’s ESG strategies and progress, including
risks and opportunities, including through Board and our climate and public policy strategies and practices.
management committees
• The Audit Committee oversees ethics and compliance as
• Developing a talented and diverse pipeline of leaders well as cybersecurity and information security. In 2021, the
committee discussed data privacy and digital citizenship.
• Designing compensation programs to support our
enterprise strategy and to align our leadership team with • The Compensation and Management Development
our culture, strategy and organizational structure Committee oversees human capital. In 2021, the
Committee discussed continued investment in wages
• Engaging regularly with and receiving feedback from
and benefits, senior leadership development and
a wide variety of stakeholders, including shareholders,
COVID-19 response, among other topics.
customers, associates and suppliers
43
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Board of Directors58
27% 18%
female identify as
racially/ethnically diverse
12-year
term limit for Independent Directors
Board independence
All members of the Audit Committee, Compensation and
Management Development Committee and Nominating
and Governance Committee are independent
Robust Lead
Independent
Director role
7 of 11
Directors are
independent
10 of 11
Directors are
non-management
Engagement in public policy
We aim to support public policy that is in the interest of our business, customers, associates
and other stakeholders. Issues of focus include climate change, corporate tax policy,
healthcare, individual data privacy, marketplace trust and transparency, racial equity, trade
and U.S. manufacturing. We believe transparency builds trust with our stakeholders and aids
in making the public case on our priority issues.
Governance. Walmart’s Government Relations Policy Trade associations. Walmart is a member of trade associations
(updated and republished in 2022) sets forth our policies and and coalitions that the company believes can assist us in
procedures relating to interactions with public officials, political achieving our long-term strategic objectives. Some of these
contributions, trade association memberships and reviews, trade associations engage in lobbying and policy advocacy.
Board and Board committee oversight of public policy activities Walmart has disclosed its major trade association memberships
and transparency. (those to which Walmart contributed $25,000 or more in 2021),
explained how we engage trade associations and evaluate
Advocacy activity. Walmart makes state and federal lobbying
our memberships and funding and provided examples of how
information available on our Investor Relations website. Our
Walmart has engaged trade associations on public policy
Engagement in public policy brief provides examples of direct
matters. Walmart also has disclosed other organizations and
engagements with policymakers, engagements with trade
coalitions it supports that are active in shaping policy on ESG
associations and public-facing advocacy on priority issues
priority issues.
including those related to climate change and racial equity.
{
Read more: Engagement in public policy
Political contributions. The Walmart Inc. Political Action
Committee for Responsible Government (WALPAC)
allows eligible Walmart associates help to elect lawmakers
(regardless of political party affiliation) at the federal level
and in certain states. All contributions at the federal level are
publicly disclosed.
44
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
In 2021, we advocated for the
Infrastructure Investment
and Jobs Act, which includes
investments to support climate
resilience; for an expansion
of the role of pharmacists
in vaccination, testing and
other areas as a way to help
reduce health disparities;
and in support of a national
privacy law to give consumers
greater control over their data
and companies reasonable
compliance standards.
Digital citizenship: Ethical use of data
& responsible use of technology
Our customer proposition has evolved beyond stores and clubs to a more digital,
omni-channel experience. Today, almost every aspect of Walmart’s business relies on the use
of technology and data, including personal data from our customers. Our ability to propel
our flywheel depends on securing and maintaining customer trust.
Digital values: Our values inform the decisions we make Cybersecurity: We work to ensure a secure environment
regarding new technologies, services and data use; policies and through risk management, training and communication and
controls related to the use and sharing of personal information; incident management. We annually assess our cybersecurity
responsible management of data, records and information; programs against third-party requirements including NIST-CSF,
and protection of our information and digital infrastructure PCI, HIPAA and SOX; our most recent external assessment
from cyber intrusions. In operationalizing our digital trust occurred in FY2022 when external auditors reviewed our
commitments, we seek to design globally and deploy locally, information technology infrastructure and our information
design for customer usability and choice and decrease implicit security management systems. We train Walmart associates,
and actual bias and increase transparency. We joined the partners and vendors with access to the corporate network with
the Data & Trust Alliance, through which we are adopting an respect to risk, roles, policies, standards and behaviors. And
algorithmic bias toolkit for evaluating how vendors detect, we have established procedures for responding to incidents,
mitigate and monitor algorithmic bias in workforce decisions. including when and how to engage with internal management,
stakeholders and law enforcement; severe incidents are
escalated to the highest levels of Walmart’s management.
{
Read more: Digital citizenship: Ethical use of data &
responsible use of technology
45
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Digital Trust
Commitments
Service: Our use of technology and data will be in
service of people.
Excellence: We strive for excellence in our
technology, making it simple, convenient and secure.
Integrity: We will use data responsibly and
transparently and always with integrity.
Respect: Our data practices and technology will
treat people fairly, with dignity and respect.
Salient human rights issues Key aspects
Treating workers with respect • Pay; working hours
• Freedom of association and collective bargaining
• Meaningful opportunities for workers to be heard
Promoting a safe & healthy work environment • Physical safety and security of work premises
Human rights
• Workplace abuse
• Healthy work environments
We respect human rights and seek to use our scale, capabilities
and influence to help people and communities improve their Providing a fair & inclusive work environment • Anti-discrimination and harassment
lives, with a focus on our salient human rights issues. Our Human
• Diversity and inclusion
Rights Statement serves as the foundation of our efforts by
confirming our respect for human rights and articulating how • Gender equity
our culture, values and international instruments inform our
approach to human rights. In 2021, Walmart’s Human Rights
Combating forced & underage labor • Forced labor, including debt bondage
Working Group mapped our current policies and practices to
• Underage labor
the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business
Conduct in order to enhance our approach to human rights.
• Vulnerability of migrant workers; responsible recruitment
{
Read more: Human rights • Human trafficking
46
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
Endnotes
1. The calculation excludes the following associate types: Home office, business such as product use, waste disposal, commuting and and reusable plastic bags globally. For the time frame of the private
pharmacists, on-site-clinics, drivers, management trainees and, business travel. brands packaging survey, we instructed suppliers to use their latest
temporary associates. or most recent 12-month period for which they have data available.
3. On an adjusted basis between 2015 calendar year baseline and 2020,
If they reported last year, use the same reporting period as the
2. Annual scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions and Carbon Intensities are Walmart reduced its absolute scope 1 and 2 emissions by 15.6%,
initial/prior reporting year to avoid gaps or overlap with the prior
updated from time to time for changes in emission factors or equivalent to 3.0 million metric tons of CO e. Adjustments may
year’s submissions. For suppliers that did not complete the survey
2
activity data when more accurate information become available. include the effects of acquisitions and divestitures for the period in
or provided unusable data, proxy data was substituted to provide
This may result in updated emissions reported in the ESG Climate which they had an effect.
a full estimate of global private brand packaging. For the proxy
Brief that may not correspond to results reported to CDP for our
calculation, a market level approach was used.
4. Packaging metrics are measured in weight and based on supplier
annual Climate Change questionnaire. We engage Lucideon CICS
reports through a supplier survey. Proxy data were calculated to
to independently verify Walmart’s reported scope 1 and scope 7. U.S. metrics include all 50 states but exclude Puerto Rico. U.S.
provide data for suppliers that did not complete the survey or
2 emissions as reported to CDP annually, pursuant to ISO 14064- management metrics include all salaried, exempt associates.
provided unusable data. Proxy data are meant to represent an
3 (the international standard for verification of Greenhouse Gas
estimate of how much packaging those suppliers / markets may 8. A diverse supplier is defined as a U.S. privately held company that
inventories). We follow Walmart’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory
utilize to provide an overall picture of Walmart’s entire packaging is recognized as 51% owned and operated by a woman, minority,
Methodology, which is attached to our CDP disclosures. Our
footprint. The calculation is based on supplier participation in the veteran, disabled veteran, person with a disability or member of the
methodology is consistent with the principles and guidance of
survey as a percentage of net sales and known packaging data. lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender (LGBT) community.
the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for
Walmart private brand suppliers representing 73% of Walmart global
Sustainable Development’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative
9. Calculated in accordance with Walmart’s Project Gigaton
private brand net sales reported packaging data in 2019; in 2020 the
(“The GHG Protocol”) for corporate GHG accounting and
Accounting Methodology, available on the Walmart
figure was 78% and in 2021 the figure was 80%.
reporting. scope 2 (market-based) emissions include the carbon
Sustainability Hub. Suppliers submit information during a Project
reduction value of renewable electricity procured from onsite and 5. Walmart divested its business in Argentina in 2020 and its GigatonTM reporting season; figures reported are for the reporting
offsite projects. The GHG Protocol outlines three emissions sources
businesses in the U.K. and Japan in 2021. Because of the sale season that took place during the corresponding fiscal year.
(referred to as “scopes”) that provide the framework for operational
of Walmart’s Argentina business in late 2020, we were unable Because Walmart does not restrict suppliers to reporting only on
boundaries. The three scopes are:
to capture sufficient packaging data for the Argentina market; emissions avoidance and reduction efforts that are attributable to
to represent this market’s business in 2020, we used the 2018- the suppliers’ business with Walmart, actions taken and reported
• Scope 1, “Direct Emissions,” represent emissions from the
2019 private brand packaging survey for Argentina. Walmart through Project GigatonTM cannot be used to measure Walmart’s
combustible fuels and other sources that occur directly on
divested its businesses in the U.K. and Japan in early 2021; because scope 3 emissions, either absolutely or in year-over-year reductions.
sites (e.g., refrigerants,) and mobile emissions sources.jj
the businesses were divested early in the year, we did not proxy
10. As of March 2022.
• Scope 2, “Indirect Emissions,” represent emissions that occur packaging data for the time Walmart owned those businesses and
off-site to produce electricity or steam purchased for use at the 2021 packaging figures represented here do not include the U.K. 11. Board metrics presented correspond with information reported in
corporate locations. or Japan. Walmart’s 2022 Annual Proxy Statement; director metrics are based
on nominees for election at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting for
• Scope 3, “Other Indirect Emissions,” represents emissions 6. Calculation follows the 2021 Reporting Guidelines for The New
each year.
from activities down or upstream from a company’s core Plastics Global Commitment and includes all private brand primary,
secondary and tertiary plastic packaging, including single-use plastic
47
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
12. Walmart measures its chemical footprint in terms of priority trainees and, temporary associates. Average total compensation in FY2022 and the volume of that seafood that met Walmart’s
chemicals, or PCs based on supplier reports collected through includes average hourly pay, other compensation and benefits per requirements (certified by a designated program or in a FIP or AIP).
UL WERCSmart for in-scope products sold. Walmart references hour for full- and part-time associates. This does not include special Suppliers representing approximately 100% of Walmart U.S., 100%
regulatory and authoritative lists to determine priority chemicals. cash bonuses or paid leave related to COVID-19. of Sam’s Club U.S. and 45% of Mexico volume of fresh and frozen,
These lists can be found at https://www.walmartsustainabilityhub. wild-caught and farmed, seafood shipped in FY2022 responded.
21. This segment includes the Walmart U.S. stores and supply chain.
com/sustainable-chemistry/implementation-guide/appendices. Our Reported volumes were validated against Sustainable Fisheries
footprint covers in-scope formulated consumables products within Partnership records and Walmart business data showing supplier
22. This segment includes Sam’s Club clubs and supply chain.
beauty, personal care, baby, pet and household cleaning products shipments. Central America reporting is based on reports from
23. Supply chain includes associates who work in distribution and
sold by Walmart U.S. stores and Sam’s Clubs in the U.S. In any given suppliers representing 100% of Walmart Central America fresh and
fulfillment centers but excludes drivers.
year, an increase or decrease in UPC volume weight disclosures frozen, wild-caught and farmed seafood in CY2021.
may impact reporting. To learn about formulation disclosure,
24. U.S. metrics include all 50 states but exclude Puerto Rico. Includes
31. Goal subject to price, availability, quality, customer demand
please visit Section 2: Transparency of our Sustainable Chemistry
all hourly associates, excluding temporary associates and all salaried,
and unique regulatory environments across our global retail
Implementation Guide.
exempt associates.
markets. Read the full policy: https://corporate.walmart.com/
13. As part of our FY2020 reporting cycle, we restated our baseline policies#seafood-policy. Certifications tracked on the FishChoice
25. U.S. metrics include all 50 states but exclude Puerto Rico. U.S.
year chemical footprint combined for Walmart U.S. stores and Sam’s platform, FisheryProgress.org. Publicly registered FIPs include
non-management metrics include all hourly associates, excluding
Club U.S. locations from 220.8 million pounds of priority chemicals FIPs and Pre-FIPs, both of which are registered with Fishsource.
temporary associates. U.S. management metrics include all salaried,
(PC) weight to 215.9 million pounds of PC weight based on Sustainably sourced means certified by a designated program or
exempt associates. U.S. officer metrics include president, executive
formulations that our suppliers inadvertently assigned to the wrong in a FIP. Tuna suppliers were asked to report through the Seafood
vice president, senior vice president and vice president positions.
Universal Product Code (UPC) registrations in UL’s WERCSmart. Metrics System the total volume of tuna shipped to Walmart in
We updated the baseline to report the correct progress on our 26. A diverse supplier is defined as a U.S. privately held company that FY2022 and the volume of that product that met Walmart’s seafood
reduction goal. Suppliers provided product formulations to UL is recognized as 51% owned and operated by a woman, minority, policy requirements (certified by a designated program or in a FIP).
WERCSmart for 95% of in-scope UPCs. veteran, disabled veteran, person with a disability or member of the Suppliers representing 100% of Walmart U.S. and Sam’s Club U.S.
lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender (LGBT) community. volume in FY2022 responded. Reported volumes were validated
14. Based on reports from Feeding America.
against Sustainable Fisheries Partnership records and Walmart
27. Per Boston Consulting Group using data from the Economic Policy
business data showing supplier shipments. Walmart U.S. figures are
15. Eligibility requirements apply.
Institute and Bureau of Labor statistics.
for private brand and national brand tuna and cover all shelf-stable
16. For those credited with 1,000 hours of service during their
28. A diverse supplier is defined as a U.S. privately held company that tuna (includes canned and pouched).
first year.
is recognized as 51% owned and operated by a woman, minority,
32. Certifications: UTZ-Rainforest Alliance and/or Fair Trade USA.
veteran, disabled veteran, person with a disability or member of the
17. Age restrictions apply.
lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender (LGBT) community.
33. Certifications include Rainforest Alliance, Sustainably Grown
18. Including but not limited to equity awards and our Associate Stock
and Fair Trade USA. Goal originally included Asda, Walmart’s
29. See the Product Supply Chain Sustainability issue brief for a full list
Purchase Plan.
U.K. business. Walmart divested its retail operations in the U.K. in
of sustainable commodities and accompanying notes.
February 2021. Going forward, we will no longer disclose progress
19. The calculation excludes the following associate types: Home
30. Certifications tracked on the FishChoice platform, FisheryProgress. for our divested operations. Percentages are based on volume of
office associates, pharmacists, on-site-clinics, drivers, management
org. Publicly registered FIPs include FIPs and Pre-FIPs, both of bananas sourced under an annual alignment. Spot buy volume due
trainees and, temporary associates.
which are registered with Fishsource. Suppliers were asked to to sporadic increase of demand or rejections or delay of shipping to
20. The calculation excludes the following associate types: Home report through the Seafood Metrics System the total volume of ensure surety of supply is not included. Spot buys may or may not
office associates, pharmacists, on-site-clinics, drivers, management the fresh and frozen, wild-caught and farmed, seafood shipped be sustainability certified.
48
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
34. Certifications include Rainforest Alliance, Sustainably Grown 37. See notes 2 and 3 above. We divested our retail operations in 42. In general, waste metrics are based on review of material handling,
and Fair Trade USA. Goal originally included Asda, Walmart’s Argentina late in 2020 and U.K. and Japan in February and March as reported by waste vendors, food banks and stores. In cases where
U.K. business. Walmart divested its retail operations in the U.K. in of 2021, respectively. As a result, we estimated some of our scope certified or otherwise documented weights were not available due
February 2021. Going forward, we will no longer disclose progress 1 and 2 emissions for the calendar year 2020 reporting for our to industry challenges, they have been estimated based on waste
for our divested operations. Percentages are based on volume of Argentina, U.K. and Japan operations. audits, historical data, extrapolation for similar facilities in size and
pineapples sourced under an annual alignment. Spot buy volume scope, etc.
38. Carbon intensity (scope 1 and 2 per revenue) calculation is based on
due to sporadic increase of demand or rejections or delay of
calendar year emissions (January 1-December 31) and normalized 43. Walmart U.S. figure is food and consumables private brand supplier-
shipping to ensure surety of supply is not included. Spot buys may
by total annual revenues as measured by Walmart’s fiscal year reported sales with How2Recycle labeling on primary packaging;
or may not be sustainability certified.
(February 1-January 31). Sam’s Club is for all private brand supplier-reported sales. Primary
35. Certification in accordance with the principles and criteria of the packaging is packaging that goes home with the consumer. This
39. See notes 2 and 3 above.
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) segregated supply percentage excludes the net sales of private brand items that do
chain systems, or equivalent standards. Suppliers supplying Walmart not use primary packaging. For the time frame for the private
40. See note 2 above. Calculated in accordance with Walmart’s Project
private brand products in departments most likely to contain palm brands packaging survey, we instructed suppliers to use their latest
Gigaton Accounting Methodology, available on the Walmart
oil were identified and encouraged to participate in Walmart’s palm or most recent 12-month period for which they have data available.
Sustainability Hub. Suppliers submit information during a Project
oil survey. Excluding suppliers who responded to the survey and If they reported last year, use the same reporting period as the
Gigaton™ reporting season; figures reported are for the reporting
stated that they do not supply Walmart with products containing initial/prior reporting year to avoid gaps or overlap with the prior
season that took place during the corresponding fiscal year.
palm oil, suppliers representing 92% of the relevant business year’s submissions.
Because Walmart does not restrict suppliers to reporting only on
responded. The percentage of supplier-reported palm oil volumes
emissions avoidance and reduction efforts that are attributable to
44. Calculations include all private brand plastic packaging and single-
in Walmart private brand products certified as sustainable is the
the suppliers’ business with Walmart, actions taken and reported
use plastic and reusable bags globally. For the time frame of the
quotient of the volume of certified palm oil divided by total volume
through Project Gigaton™ cannot be used to measure Walmart’s
private brands packaging survey, we instructed suppliers to use
of palm oil, per the supplier survey responses. In addition to 10%
scope 3 emissions, either absolutely or in year-over-year reductions.
their latest or most recent 12-month period for which they have
certified segregated/equivalent palm oil, 80% of reported palm oil
The U.S. net sales figure used for the calculation includes Walmart
data available. If they reported last year, use the same reporting
was certified under a mass balance standard.
U.S. and Sam’s Club product net sales for the 52-week period
period as the initial/prior reporting year to avoid gaps or overlap
prior to survey reporting window. The percentage represents U.S.
36. Certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), Programme with the prior year’s submissions. “Global” refers to all of our global
product net sales of suppliers that reported to Project Gigaton™ in
for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC), Sustainable retail businesses.
the reporting year versus all U.S. product net sales. The calculation
Forestry Initiative (SFI). Suppliers supplying Walmart private brand
excludes Walmart International segment product net sales from the 45. See note 6 above.
products in departments most likely to contain pulp and paper were
calculation.
identified and encouraged to participate in Walmart’s pulp and
46. Walmart’s operational food waste reduction goal is aligned with
paper survey. Excluding suppliers who responded to the survey and
41. As used in this document, “zero waste” means meeting or exceeding Target 12.3 of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal
stated that they do not supply Walmart with products containing
Zero Waste International Alliance (ZWIA) business recognition (SDG). Progress towards food loss and waste reduction goal
pulp and paper, suppliers representing 89% of the relevant business
program requirements, which include adoption of ZWIA definition measured in conformance with the Food Loss and Waste Protocol’s
responded. The percentage of supplier-reported pulp and paper of zero waste and achievement of 90% or more diversion of Food Loss and Waste Accounting Standard (FLW Standard) for
volumes in Walmart private brand products certified as sustainable all discarded resources from landfills, incinerators and the quantifying food and/or associated inedible parts removed from
or containing recycled content is the quotient of the volume of environment. Zero waste goal and reporting scope includes waste the food supply chain. This figure is based on review of material
certified or recycled pulp and paper divided by total volume of pulp materials and products generated in Walmart’s owned facilities handling and waste diversion processes, as reported by waste
and paper, per the supplier survey responses. and its operations (stores, clubs, warehouses, return centers, truck vendors, food banks and stores. In cases where certified or
maintenance garages, etc.). otherwise documented weights were not available due to industry
49
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE
challenges, they have been estimated based on waste audits, where FY2021 was U.S. based associates only; and in FY2022 we
historical data, extrapolation for similar facilities in size and scope, included the count of associates trained who subsequent to the
etc. The 2016 baseline was adjusted to remove markets (Argentina, completion of the training, left the company.
Japan, U.K.) that have since been divested; reported reduction is vs.
55. Walmart measures its chemical footprint in terms of priority
this adjusted baseline.
chemicals, or PCs based on supplier reports collected through
47. See note 6 above. Previously, the 2020 percentage was reported UL WERCSmart for in-scope products sold. Walmart references
as 59%; during our 2021 quality assurance review for our regulatory and authoritative lists to determine priority chemicals.
2020 comparative period, we found 4 suppliers with reporting These lists can be found at https://www.walmartsustainabilityhub.
errors that affected our prior year reporting. com/sustainable-chemistry/implementation-guide/appendices. Our
footprint covers in-scope formulated consumables products within
48. See note 44 above. Previously, the 2020 percentage was
beauty, personal care, baby, pet and household cleaning products
reported as 9%; during our 2021 quality assurance review for our
sold by Walmart U.S. stores and Sam’s Clubs in the U.S. In any given
2020 comparative period, we found 4 suppliers with reporting
year, an increase or decrease in UPC volume weight disclosures
errors that affected our prior year reporting.
may impact reporting. To learn about formulation disclosure,
please visit Section 2: Transparency of our Sustainable Chemistry
49. See note 43 above.
Implementation Guide.
50. Based on RBA membership (regular or full category) or
implementing the RBA Validated Assessment Program for each 56. Our baseline year chemical footprint combined for Walmart U.S.
disclosed facility. stores and Sam’s Club U.S. locations was restated from 220.8 million
pounds of priority chemicals (PC) weight to 215.9 million pounds of
51. Amount provided by Walmart in local cash grants to organizations
PC weight based on formulations that our suppliers inadvertently
Walmart
and programs that serve communities near our stores, clubs and
assigned to the wrong Universal Product Code (UPC) registrations
distribution centers in the U.S. @WalmartInc
in UL’s WERCSmart. We updated the baseline to report the correct
progress on our reduction goal. Suppliers provided product
52. Based on reports from Feeding America.
formulations to UL WERCSmart for 95% of in-scope UPCs. 702 S.W. 8th St.
53. As a practical matter the Great for You is typically found on
Bentonville, AR 72716, USA
57. According to NOAA: https://www.climate.gov/news-features/
qualifying packaged items, as opposed to individual qualifying fresh
blogs/beyond-data/2021-us-billion-dollar-weather-and-climate- 1-800-925-6278 or 1-800-WALMART
produce items. Excluding qualified fresh produce items, as of May 3,
disasters-historical#:~:text=In%202021%2C%20the%20U.S.%20
2022, approximately 11% of active food and consumable items in the
help@walmart.com
experienced,billion%2Ddollar%20events%20in%202020.
Great Value, Marketside and Parent’s Choice private brands carry
the Great for You Icon.
58. See note 11 above.
54. In FY2021 we reported that more than 290,000 associates were
trained in at least one food safety course. In FY2022 we reported
that more than 980,000 associates globally were trained in at least
one food safety course. The FY2022 number is higher due to but
not limited to the following changes: FY2022 we offered more food
safety training courses; training was disproportionately impacted in
FY2021 by the COVID-19 pandemic; FY2022 includes all associates
50
NOITCUDORTNI
YTINUTROPPO
YTILIBANIATSUS
YTINUMMOC
YTIRGETNI
&
SCIHTE